
As we celebrate a New Year and say goodbye to 2023 and hello to 2024, we look forward to the future and the exciting entrepreneurs and businesses we will interact with this year.  Amazing minds looking to create businesses that can scale and grow.  So what better entrepreneur to spotlight this month than one looking to support entrepreneurs in reaching their sales aspirations? 
Meet Gianmarco Sinisi, Founder & CEO of Systems by Orukana, a software company that seamlessly integrates all aspects of business marketing and sales into the leading business software suites used today. 
We had a chance to catch up with Gianmarco, to ask him about his background and thoughts on his entrepreneurial journey. 
Gianmarco completed the startGBC Work-Integrated Learning program last year and is on a mission to change the lives of business owners and influencers around the world, using the power of the internet.
Bachelor of Commerce Specialized Honours Degree in Finance & Accounting from York University.  Post Graduate Certificate in Digital Media Marketing from George Brown College. 
I have always looked up to entrepreneurs.  I've always loved their determination and willingness to develop and achieve things that are bigger than themselves.  As an entrepreneur, I have control over the businesses and individuals I work with.  I value never having to promote a product or service that I do not align with.  I also value the time, location and monetary freedom of entrepreneurship.  As an employee, you are working for 8 hours a day in one place every day.  As an entrepreneur, I am working much longer days.  However, I can choose to work from wherever I want in the world on whatever project I choose. 
With entrepreneurship comes the freedom to choose how to accomplish the tasks at hand.  I enjoy this freedom as it allows me to fully embrace my creativity and passion. 
I have always been passionate about social media.  I grew several branded social media accounts, and I developed a few product lines to cater to my social media presence and made money doing so.  This was before I started Systems by Orukana.
I realized that I could apply this knowledge to other businesses to generate more revenue.  I then began to examine the issues I faced when running my own online business, and I created solutions to these issues.  I created my business to offer these solutions to other business owners who may need them.  
I combined my knowledge of paid advertising, social media, and software then began offering it to businesses around the world as a service, in an attempt to share my knowledge and help them take their business to the next level.
My greatest successes are the successes of my clients. I built a client TikTok account from 0 to 6,000 followers with one piece of content generating over 20.5 million views.  For another, I generated over $50,000 worth of ready-to-buy leads for a client within the first 7 days of working for them.  (Using a combination of Google ads and my SBO software)
I’ve successfully managed a team of 3-6 individuals responsible for key functions of my business process and have now developed a team of 1,000 affiliate marketers around the world, to connect with content creators and influencers. 
Never give up.  Sometimes you will feel like the world is crumbling down.  It will feel like nothing can go right from here.  I promise that every time it works itself out. The only reason you will ever lose is if you give up.  If you never give up, you will only learn and improve. 
For Car and Motorcycle Enthusiasts:  www.orukana.io
For Businesses and Entrepreneurs:  www.systemsbyorukana.io
Books:  Proof of Heaven, The Celestine Prophecy, The Hero's Journey, Atomic Habits, Dare to Lead, Permission Marketing, Traction.
I think it is extremely important that entrepreneurs try everything and try everything fast.  The faster you try, the faster you will fail and learn from it.  You will only truly learn what to do if you've already failed at it once. 
Website: www.systemsbyorukana.io
Instagram: @orukanaman
LinkedIn: @gianmarcosinisi
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.