
As we approach the end of term, it is with a sense of gratitude that I reflect on all that we have accomplished together in 2023 and our bright outlook for 2024.
While there have been wonderful moments, 2023 has not been without its challenges at both a shared and personal level for many. I have been proud of the contributions our employees and students have made within our halls, and on the local, provincial and national stage. Your commitment and resilience have been truly inspiring, as has your engagement with one other, and the mutual support you provide, through times of difficulty and in moments of celebration.
Each time I come to campus and marvel at the rapid construction of Limberlost Place, I am proud of our continuing evolution as a college - not only in the expansion of our physical campus footprint, but in our leadership on sustainability, housing, accessible education and much more. Throughout this transformative year, you as a community have showcased innovation, collaboration, and unwavering commitment to the well-being and success of students. They are after all the heart of what we do at George Brown College. I, along with the senior leadership team, truly appreciate your efforts. Please take a moment to view my holiday video message below.
I hope that you are able to connect with your friends and loved ones over the holidays, and that you can all share in the activities you enjoy.
Our next wellness day on January 2 is an important opportunity to rest and recharge. Thank you also to the dedicated employees who will be working throughout the holiday break to keep our campuses operational and safe.
I wish each and every one of you a holiday season filled with joy, surrounded by the love of family and friends. May it pave the way for a happy and healthy start to 2024, a year I know will be full of new opportunities and successes.
Sincerely,
Dr. Gervan Fearon
President
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.