
Aaron Berhane was an award-winning journalist who dedicated his life to human rights and was a tireless advocate for the freedom of expression. It is with great sadness that the world lost Aaron on May 1, 2021.
Among Aaron’s many achievements throughout his lifetime, he co-founded Eritrea’s first independent newspaper, earned a Master’s degree from Ryerson University, taught at George Brown College, published a newspaper in Toronto about Eritrean issues, and volunteered with PEN Canada for 15 years. In 2019, Aaron received Humber College’s PEN Writer-in-Residence fellowship and the year after was appointed Chair of the Writers-in-Exile Committee at PEN Canada. For more information on Aaron Berhane and his legacy, please see the linked Toronto Star article.
As we mourn the loss of Aaron Berhane, his family, friends and colleagues have chosen to honour his legacy through the creation of the Aaron Berhane Memorial Student Scholarship. Funds raised for this scholarship will be combined with the De La Salle Bursary so that even more George Brown College students can receive the financial assistance they need to attend college and achieve their educational and career goals. Through this gift, Aaron’s passion and dedication for the freedom of knowledge will live on.
Donations to this scholarship will elicit a tax receipt for the full amount. 100% of your donation will directly go to support the scholarship.
For additional information, please contact Gabriella Goutam at the George Brown College Foundation at gabriella.goutam@georgebrown.ca or 416-415-5000 ext. 3289.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.