
George Brown College’s Waterfront Campus, located in the East Bayfront community in downtown Toronto, features the Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences, one of the city’s most architecturally striking learning environments, overlooking the Toronto harbour. 
The facility was purpose-built to emphasize interprofessional team-based education—the new standard for health-care graduates entering the workforce. The Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences is equipped with state-of-the-art labs and classrooms, as well as informal learning spaces and rooftop terraces, and was designed to support emerging themes in health care delivery in Ontario.
With our Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences, George Brown College is better equipped to push educational and institutional boundaries to ensure our graduates are workplace ready. George Brown prepares graduates to support a collaborative health-care system, where all health professionals work effectively and efficiently with each other. Our graduates are able to apply their specific expertise as a member of the health-care team and support patient achievement of expected health outcomes. George Brown offers programs for students throughout their health careers from entry to practice to postgraduate studies and professional development.
The purpose of our health and wellness clinics, called WAVE (Wellness, Applied Research and Visionary Education), is to provide students with access to real clients so they can practice their skills in a controlled and safe environment. Similarly, clients benefit from students who are learning from, and supervised by, industry professionals, offering quality, cost–effective services to the community.
WAVE is comprised of the Dental Clinic, Hearing Clinic, Fitness Studios, Active Living Clinic and Health Promotion. 
To book an appointment, visit the WAVE client services reception located on the third floor of the Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences at 51 Dockside Dr. You can also call (416) 415-4547 or email to schedule an appointment.
Learn more about WAVE
The Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences houses state-of-the-art living labs in the Simulation Centre. The facility gives students the opportunity to learn in environments that mirror the real world, including hospital and long-term care settings, and our Health eHome—a replicated bachelor apartment. The Simulation Centre continues its partnerships with other educational institutions, health-care facilities and related associations such as Baycrest Hospital, CAMH, Emily’s House, Philip Aziz Centre, St. Michael’s Hospital, Trent University, the University of Toronto and VHA Home HealthCare.
Learn more about the Simulation Centre
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.