
Your academic record reflects your academic achievements while at George Brown College. You may need it to apply for a job or to another college or university. Your name as it appears on your STU-View record will be printed on your credential and transcript. It is in your best interest to ensure your record is correct (e.g., proper spelling of your name).
General Collection Notice:George Brown College (the “College”) collects personal information under the authority of the Ontario Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology Act and in accordance with the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act. The College collects personal information for the purposes of administering its statutory objects and powers, programs, activities, and to carry out other services and functions. The College will secure personal information securely and use for such purposes as set out in the George Brown Notice of Collection. If you have any questions about the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information at the College, please visit Privacy Policy page. You may also contact the Privacy Office via email at privacy@georgebrown.ca.
Your records (personal information) are the property of the college. The college is bound by the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (2002). Only you (or someone with your written permission) can view and obtain a copy of your records. To protect your confidentiality and the college’s liability, you must provide written consent for a third party to access or discuss personal information held by the college.
Get instructions on how to access an unofficial transcript or order an official transcript and how to request a replacement credential.
Learn how the college’s grading scheme works and where you can find your grades.
See if your credential is eligible to be changed to an Honours Degree based on amendments made by the Ministry of Colleges & Universities.
Discover the process of changing your preferred name on Stu-View, Brightspace, and more.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.