
Not everyone takes the same educational path. That’s why we have many options to help you reach your goals –including online learning, in-person workshops, and full-time programs. Our courses are flexible and tuition-free.
Interested in upgrading your academic skills, but not sure where to begin? Academic Upgrading at George Brown is a tuition-free program funded by Employment Ontario for adults who need to upgrade their English Communications, Math and/or Science skills. The program is designed to help students meet the entry requirements for college-level certificate and diploma programs or move successfully into apprenticeships or employment.
Are you an English-speaking Ontario resident, 19 years or older, who’s been out of school? If English is your second language, are your skills at the Canadian Language benchmark level 8 or higher? If you answered yes and you want to start improving your academic skills, then our Academic Upgrading program might be right for you!
Academic Upgrading classes take place online between 9 am and 2:00 pm, Monday to Friday throughout the year. The program offers intake twice each semester. When in-person classes are available, they take place at our St. James Campus on King Street East.
If you’re thinking about college but are not sure how to get started or which programs may be the right fit for you, consider our 1-week CHOICES program.
We offer upgrading programs to improve written English, Math, Computer or Science Skills.
Classes offered to Deaf and Hard of Hearing students in American Sign Language to improve your English, math and ASL to prepare for post-secondary and employment success.
For applicants missing some University Level (U-Level) credits, we offer bridging programs to gain the required courses to enter a George Brown degree program.
We offer a unique 3-week program to prepare for your mature student assessment test before you start your post-secondary program.
You have been ACCEPTED into a post-secondary program at George Brown College and you’ve been informed that you need to write a math placement test. Join our free Math Placement Test Assessment Preparation Test before you write your placement test.
Free classes are offered on weekends at our St James Campus.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.