
This program is for Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing students who want to upgrade their English, American Sign Language (ASL) and Math, and helps increase your chances to be accepted to college and apprenticeship programs, or to find a job. Many of our students go on to successfully attend programs at George Brown and other colleges.
George Brown Deaf upgrading courses are offered at different levels, right up to ACE (Academic and Career Entrance). ACE credits are recognized by Ontario colleges for admission to college and apprenticeship programs. Many employers recognize the ACE certificate as equal to a high school diploma.
To apply, contact deafupgrading@georgebrown.ca.
If you are age 19 or older, are Deaf or Hard-of-Hearing, use ASL and live in Ontario, you can apply.
Deaf Academic Upgrading is tuition-free for Ontario residents age 19 or older. It is funded by Employment Ontario. Eligible students can apply for transportation subsidies.
Deaf Academic Upgrading courses run 10 hours per week, for 15 weeks, Monday-Friday, starting at the beginning of the semester in September and January at our St. James Campus, 200 King Street East, Toronto.
Courses begin in September and January. Students are welcome to contact us by email as deafupgrading@georgebrown.ca.
Your program may take from 1-2 years to complete, depending on your other work and personal commitments. Many students study part-time.
Email deafupgrading@georgebrown.ca for more information on how to apply to the Academic Upgrading Program for Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing adults.
Contact us by email at: deafupgrading@georgebrown.ca to apply.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.