
George Brown College will support you to build a learning plan that’s based on your goals. Academic Upgrading is a tuition-free program for English speaking adults who want to improve their reading, writing, math, science and computer skills.
We offer two options for Academic Upgrading:
STUDY ON-CAMPUS (A751)STUDY ONLINE (ACE DISTANCE)
George Brown upgrading courses are offered at different levels, right up to ACE (Academic and Career Entrance). ACE credits are recognized by Ontario colleges for application purposes to college and apprenticeship programs.
Academic Upgrading can help you get the ACE English, math or science credits you need for the program you want. Most students only need to complete 1 or 2 ACE credits to apply to their college program.
Students who complete 4 ACE Credits are eligible for the ACE Certificate, which is accepted as an alternative to the Ontario high school diploma. Many employers also recognize the ACE Certificate.
If you are 19 years or older, fluent in English and are a permanent resident of Ontario, you can register for this program.
Academic Upgrading is tuition-free for all permanent residents of Ontario age 19 or older. It is funded by Employment Ontario. Eligible students can apply for transportation subsidies.
Courses run for 15 weeks of class time, Monday to Friday between 9 am and 4:30 pm at our St. James Campus location.
Your program may take from 4-12 months to complete, depending on your academic needs, personal goals and progress.
Our Academic Upgrading Intake Team is happy to talk to you.
For application information, email upgradinginfo@georgebrown.ca
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.