
We've compiled the most common questions we get asked about Entry Advising and grouped them into categories. Expand the categories below to learn more!
Academic Upgrading is a tuition-free program for adults who want to improve their skills in reading, writing, math and science. Whether you want to take your courses in person or online, we will support you in building a learning plan to help meet your goals and you'll get career advice, counselling and other supports at George Brown.
Want to know more? Email us at upgradinginfo@georgebrown.ca, or give us a call 416-415-5000 ext. 3560.
Our courses help individuals meet college and apprenticeship entry requirements in English Communications, math and science. We also offer courses in computer skills, as well as personal and professional exploration. Courses are offered at varying levels up to the Academic and Career Entrance level, commonly known as ACE. ACE is a credit level accepted and recognized by Ontario colleges for admission purposes.
CHOICES at George Brown is a free, one-week program that helps you learn about yourself and set goals for the future.
By the end of the week, you'll be clearer about your career interests and goals. You'll have a plan of action and our coaches will help you take your next steps.
REGISTER NOW
Want to know more?Email us at choices@georgebrown.ca.
Your courses will depend on your program. Many of our courses are available both in-person and online. George Brown upgrading courses are offered in English, math and science. Different levels of English and math are offered, right up to ACE (Academic and Career Entrance). Science courses are offered at ACE (Academic and Career Entrance) level only. ACE credits are recognized by Ontario colleges for application to postsecondary and apprenticeship programs. Many employers recognize the ACE Certificate.
Want to know more? Email us at upgradinginfo@georgebrown.ca, or give us a call 416-415-5000 ext. 3560.
Academic Upgrading courses are all different and can take from 4 months to a year or more depending on personal goals, academic needs and progress.
Want to know more? Email us at upgradinginfo@georgebrown.ca, or give us a call 416-415-5000 ext. 3560.
You can take our upgrading programs if you are:
Want to know more?Email us at upgradinginfo@georgebrown.ca, or give us a call at 416-415-5000 ext. 3560.
Yes! If you are age 19 or older, know some ASL and live in Ontario you are eligible for Deaf/Hard-of-Hearing Academic Upgrading. You can also take courses online through Deaf Learn Now.
Want to know more? Email us at deafupgrading@georgebrown.ca or visit the Deaf Learning Now website
EI benefits may not be available when participating in programs or workshops under academic upgrading. For clarification on your rights and obligations as an EI claimant, please contact Service Canada.
Want to know more?Email us at upgradinginfo@georgebrown.ca or give us a call at 416-415-5000 ext. 3560.
All Academic Upgrading courses at George Brown are tuition-free for permanent residents of Ontario. They are funded by Employment Ontario. There is a fee for some ACE Distance courses, depending on when you take them.
Want to know more?Email us at upgradinginfo@georgebrown.ca, or give us a call at 416-415-5000 ext. 3560.
Yes! Students in the Academic Upgrading Program and the Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing Upgrading Program can apply for transportation subsidies.
Want to know more?Email us at upgradinginfo@georgebrown.ca or give us a call at 416-415-5000 ext. 3560.
No, but you can get an equivalent credential. Through Academic Upgrading, you can get the ACE (Academic Career Entrance) Certificate by completing 4 ACE level credits. English, math and two other ACE courses.
Want to know more?Email us at upgradinginfo@georgebrown.ca, or give us a call at 416-415-5000 ext. 3560.
Your teachers, counsellor and other program staff will work to support you in planning your next steps.
Want to know more?Email us at upgradinginfo@georgebrown.ca or give us a call at 416-415-5000 ext. 3560.
 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.