
Accessibility is fundamental to George Brown College's core values of excellence, accountability, diversity and respect. As a college, we are committed to creating an inclusive environment for everyone: employees, students and our community members.
As an organization, we recognize that all employees have a role in creating an accessible and inclusive community, in compliance with the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA). This commitment to accessibility is a shared responsibility across the entire college.
If you are currently experiencing a barrier to access at the college, please call security: 416-415-4000 or aoda@georgebrown.ca
We encourage everyone to review the following resources that further support the college’s efforts towards creating and maintaining an accessible and inclusive community:
At George Brown College, we are committed to providing students with equal access and equal opportunity to education. Support is offered through a variety of services and initiatives at the college, including:
George Brown College is dedicated to promoting an equitable environment that encourages everyone to access and participate in all aspects of college life. As an organization, we recognize that all employees have a role in creating an accessible and inclusive community and offer support for achieving this through a variety of services and initiatives at the college, including:
George Brown College is committed to ensuring that your visit, tour, or the event you are attending is accessible.
The AODA became law on June 13, 2005. Under this landmark legislation, the government of Ontario developed mandatory accessibility standards that identify, remove and prevent barriers for people with disabilities.
Effective July 1, 2016, the Customer Service Standards (which came into effect on January 1, 2008), have been consolidated with the Integrated Accessibility Standards into one regulation, the O. Reg. 191/11: Integrated Accessibility Standards (under Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act, 2005, S.O. 2005, c. 11).
Some of the ways GBC meets these standards, include:
George Brown College is committed to achieving barrier-free access for persons with disabilities who are working, learning or visiting at the college.
Service Disruption Notifications: If you are currently experiencing a barrier to access at the college, please contact security: 416-415-4000 or aoda@georgebrown.ca.
We welcome your feedback, questions or concerns regarding accessibility, via email or using this form. We are committed to respond within five business days.
George Brown College’s accessibility policies provide guidance on how the college will work to achieve the applicable obligations and responsibilities under the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act, 2005, S.O. 2005, c. 11 and the O. Reg. 191/11: Integrated Accessibility Standards, in adherence with the key principles of dignity, independence, integration and equal opportunity.
Please refer to the AODA Accessibility Policies for more information.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.