
The Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA) became law on June 13, 2005. Under this landmark legislation, the government of Ontario developed mandatory accessibility standards that identify, remove and prevent barriers for people with disabilities.
Effective July 1, 2016, the standards have been consolidated into one regulation, the O. Reg. 191/11: Integrated Accessibility Standards which includes the following:
The GBC AODA Accessibility Policy provides clear guidance on how the college will achieve the applicable obligations and responsibilities under the AODA and its Standards, guided by the principles of dignity, independence, integration and equal opportunity. Please refer to the AODA Training Modules and related policies for further details.
GBC has a dedicated committee to address accessibility issues on an ongoing basis. The George Brown College AODA Committee is comprised of members who champion accessibility best practices, those who are accountable for the successful implementation of accessibility initiatives and AODA regulations throughout the college, and the AODA Coordinator who provides leadership and expertise across the college in support of GBC's accessibility strategy. This committee is responsible for key activities that include but are not limited to reviewing the annual status report, as well as the outcomes, deliverables and activities stated in our multi-year plan. For more information please contact aoda@georgebrown.ca.
VIEW THE COLLEGE'S MULTI-YEAR PLAN
If you have any questions or concerns regarding accessibility, please submit your comments using our form. We welcome your feedback and will respond within five business days.
Fill out form
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.