
Sign in to our new student portal to create your profile. You can learn more about the process below
Enter portal
For students outside of Ontario or Canada, please visit our Guide for Students Outside of Ontario for counselling options.
We strive to operate from a trauma-informed, anti-oppressive, student-centred approach and are committed to ongoing work in these areas. We aim to work collaboratively with you to develop a plan to meet your goals. Your feedback is welcome throughout the process. As a service of George Brown College, we adhere to your rights in accordance with the policies of our Office of Anti-Racism, Equity, and Human Rights Services.
We are a diverse team of experienced professionals with advanced training in various counselling approaches and modalities. All our counsellors are masters-level clinicians and are either registered psychotherapists (RP) or registered social workers (RSW). The team provides mental health counselling to all registered students to support their well-being. We also promote student wellness through therapeutic and psychoeducational groups, workshops, webinars, in-class presentations and more! If you are interested in learning more about how our groups can help you, please visit our Counselling and Confidentiality page.
If you have questions specific to course selection, please contact your academic department or your program coordinator for more support.
If you are in crisis and need immediate help, please contact the appropriate Emergency Services.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.