

Adult learner out of school?Need to get ready for college?Missing some entrance requirements?Need a credential to improve job opportunities?
Learn more about ACE credentials and their equivalencies.
We care about your success and are committed to providing you with high quality online courses and support to enable you to reach your goal. To help you succeed, we have developed an Assessment and Orientation course called Learn to Learn. All ACE Distance students must complete the Learn to Learn course BEFORE enrolling in an ACE Distance course.
This 20 hour course will help you make sure you have the necessary personal, computer and academic skills to successfully participate in ACE Distance courses. There is also material that will teach you how to be an effective online learner. You can proceed through the material at your own pace.
The instructor, Stephanie Balsdon, will help you to develop an Individualized Training Plan (ITP) based on your goal. Stephanie is also available to help you by providing advice, follow up and encouragement in partnership with your online teachers once you have registered in the ACE course of your choice.
The Learn to Learn course is intended to help you determine if online learning is the right choice for you. It is a process to get you started as quickly as possible taking the right courses. To be sure you're ready, register for the Learn to Learn course today.
Once you have completed the Learn to Learn pre-requisite, you are ready to begin your ACE Distance studies. You will be allowed to register in one course.
OPTION 1: FREE ACE Distance Classes (limited space)
Free ACE Distance intake takes place the first week of September, November, January, March and April and June.
OPTION 2: ACE Distance offered for a fee (more space)
ACE Distance intake is in May, July, August, October, December, and February as a paid option. Details of prices for the respective courses are listed below. If you are a client of Ontario Works, talk to your worker about having OW cover this cost.
George Brown CollegeACE Distance200 King St. E., Rm. 524AToronto, ON M5A 3W8
Your cheque must be received before intake begins. When we receive it, we will send you an email confirming receipt of your registration.
You may take a combination of free and paid-option ACE Distance courses. Congratulations on your decision to enrol in ACE Distance. Your future awaits you!
For more information about ACE Online and the ACE Certificate visit the ACE Distance website.
Contact George Brown College's ACE Distance team for more information: call 416-415-5000 ext. 6193 or email at acedistance@georgebrown.ca
If you’re interested in attending Academic Upgrading classes at George Brown's downtown campus, visit the Academic Upgrading page, email at upgradinginfo@georgebrown.ca or call 416-415-5000 ext. 3560.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.