
As Dean of the Centre for Construction and Engineering Technologies (CCET), Adel Esayed strives to deliver high quality education, develop valuable alliances with industry partners and ensure George Brown College is recognized as a leader in innovation. Serving the needs of the labour market and the development needs of Toronto are key priorities, as well as engaging more students in applied research projects.
Adel returned to George Brown to lead CCET in the fall of 2015 after nearly two decades of experience teaching and in senior administrative roles at George Brown and other southern Ontario colleges.
Previously, Adel was the associate dean of the technology division at Niagara College where he developed new programs and helped to grow international enrolment in the school’s technology programs. He created an applied research team and built relationships with universities and associations in Canada and abroad, including Wilfrid Laurier University, the Canadian Solar Industries Association, Limerick Institute of Technology in Ireland, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Colleges of Excellence and Hoseo University in South Korea.
Between 2006 and 2009, Adel served as an academic chair for the School of Engineering Technologies at St. Clair College in Windsor, Ont., reporting to the vice-president, academic. In this position, he led the development of a partnership between the college and the University of Windsor, and another with Miceli Technologies Inc. From 1999 to 2006, he served as a teacher and program coordinator at George Brown’s School of Mechanical Engineering Technologies within CCET and was well-known for his participation in marketing and recruitment activities and other college-wide initiatives.
Adel earned a Bachelor of Science in Materials Engineering at the University of Tripoli and completed his Master of Science in Materials Engineering at the University of Alberta. He earned his Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Mechanical Engineering at the University of Windsor.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.