
Admission requirements differ significantly depending on your country of origin as well as the credential that you wish to pursue.
In order to be admitted into the program of your choice you must:
Please select your country of origin and credential of interest under the drop down tab in "See Credential Requirements" in order to view specific requirements for your country.
We do not have the capacity to admit all applicants who meet the minimum general and program-specific requirements. Please note that programs can close early if international enrollment for the program is already achieved and there is no more capacity. Submission of an application does not guarantee an offer of a place in a program.
Please attach all documents required in support of your application but do not send any extra documents that are not required. For most countries, copies of originals should be attested as "true copies" by the educational institution or by a notary.
Applicants who are under 18 must also submit custodianship documents.
George Brown College Admissions Officers reserve the right to request original documents if there are any doubts or questions with regard to authenticity or legibility of documents submitted electronically.
The following minimum scores are required:
*Please note changes to Duolingo requirements starting in January 2025
 
*To register for the test, you will need to apply for your academic program and receive your Admissions Test Letter. For more information on the Admissions Test, please visit: georgebrown.ca/assessment
**Not applicable to collaborative degree programs eg. Early Childhood Education (C118).
Applicants from eligible countries† who do not meet George Brown's English language entry requirements may be offered a conditional acceptance for College diploma, postgraduate and degree programs which will be subject to successful completion of level 8 or 9 of George Brown's English for Academic Purposes (EAP) program. † For applicants from some countries (e.g., countries where English is the first/official language and countries in South Asia) we are not able to provide the option of a Letter of Acceptance to the George Brown College English for Academic Purposes Program (EAP) as it has been our experience that Study Permit applicants from specific countries are rejected by the Canadian visa office for a Study Permit (visa) when there is an ESL (English as a Second Language) component requested. For applicants from South Asian countries (India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka) it is highly recommended to submit official TOEFL or IELTS scores.
105+
95 - 104
85 - 94
75 - 84
65 - 74
55 - 64
45 - 54
30 - 44
10 - 29
* 2-year test validation maximum.
You will be placed in the EAP starting level that corresponds to your lowest score in all test sections. For students interested in taking the IELTS test in Toronto, the George Brown college official IELTS test centre provides a complete IELTS testing service. For more information, please visit the IELTS Testing service site.
George Brown College Admissions Officers reserve the right to require TOEFL/IELTS/Duolingo results for EAP level placement on all EAP applications.
Current or returning EAP students who suspend their studies for more than six consecutive 8-week sessions must retake the EAP level placement test or submit a valid IELTS/TOEFL/Duolingo score in order to be placed back into the program. 
For EAP intakes starting September 2024 onwards, the Duolingo requirements will be as follows:
9
115- 120
95-100
8
105-110
85- 90
7
95- 105
75- 80
6
85- 95
65 - 70
5
75- 85
55- 60
4
65- 75
45- 50
3
55- 65
35- 40
2
45- 55
25- 30
1
20- 45
15- 20
The following list of programs are NOT eligible to receive conditional letters of acceptance (CLOA). Applicants are required to fulfill all academic, English proficiency, and additional divisional criteria to receive a direct letter of acceptance (LOA) only if selected. Selection criteria and requirements are indicated on each program page under the menu tab How to Qualify & Apply with specific details sent to applicants AFTER an initial review of the application is complete. Please note that divisional selection requirements can change and please refer to the individual program page for the most up to date information. 
These programs require prior approval from the Academic Department
To meet this requirement, you are required to have studied full-time for at least two consecutive full academic years (high school or post-secondary), within the past four years where the medium of instruction was English, in one of the following countries:
Centennial
 
Applicants from eligible countries who do not meet George Brown's English language requirements may be offered conditional admission to a post-secondary program through George Brown's EAP (English for Academic Purposes) program.
Results for admissions tests take approximately 5 business days to be issued. Please email your Admissions Officer 5 business days after you have written the test. Your Admissions Officer's contact information is on your Letter of Acceptance and Test Letter.
Results for admissions test take approximately 5 business days to be issued.
Admissions tests are used to determine if you meet the requirements for admission to the College.
Placement Assessments in English and/or Math are taken after you have accepted an offer of admission. Placement assessments determine whether you are ready to take the college-level credit courses in English and/or math in the first semester, or if you need to take a foundation- level course first to further develop your skills. For programs that require English and/or Math placement testing, find out more from the Assessment Centre.
Note: If you have already taken an Admissions Assessment (as part of your college application process), your Admissions Assessment results will be used as placement results too.
Due to the high volume of applications received, we are not able to provide exact processing times. Please note that we will not be reviewing applications/issuing offers until 6-7 months prior to the start of a selected term.
The processing time starts when we begin processing applications, not when we open the intake for submission. The current application processing time is approximately 3-4 weeks.
We do not have the capacity to admit all applicants who meet the minimum general and program-specific requirements. Please note that programs can close early if international enrollment for the program is already achieved and there is no more capacity. Submission of an application does not guarantee an offer of a place in a program.
Unfortunately, programs can close early if international enrollment for that program is already achieved and there are no more places. You can ask the International Centre or your admissions officer about other available programs or you may have to wait to apply for a future intake.
Protected Persons, Refugee Claimants, or Convention Refugees are required to obtain a study permit for engaging in education or training that is more than 6 months in duration.  Students must have a valid study permit in order to begin studying at George Brown College, if the program is more than 6 months and/or their intention is to study longer than 6 months. Details can be found by visiting Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada.
After receiving an offer of admission, you must apply for a study permit. Please note that Study Permits are not issued inside Canada. You must apply online or at the nearest Canadian Embassy, High Commission or Consulate. Official information on requirements can be obtained from an IRCC (formerly CIC) office in Canada, a Canadian Embassy or Consulate overseas and/or the IRCC (formerly CIC) website at: https://www.canada.ca/en/services/immigration-citizenship.html
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.