
It can take up to two weeks for documents to reach George Brown College. Please continue to check Stu-view for an update to your status. Once George Brown receives your documents, they will be reviewed and your application will be updated. This may take another two to three weeks.
Official transcripts can be sent via ontariocolleges.ca. The documents will be then forwarded to George Brown College. Please note that it can take up to two weeks for documents to reach the college and another two to three weeks to be processed.
Most private college courses and/ or credentials are NOT acceptable as admission requirements for George Brown programs. Please contact the admissions office at admissions@georgebrown.ca to verify for your particular program of interest.
Credentials that are earned outside of Canada must be evaluated. The Admissions Office will accept evaluations from the International Credential Assessment Service of Canada (ICAS), World Education Services (WES) or Comparative Education Service (CES) at the University of Toronto (for certain program only). For most programs we recommend a Comprehensive Assessment Report.
Postgraduate programs require a diploma or a degree (please check specific program details for exact requirements). We will not accept high school credits/ Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) for postgraduate programs.
George Brown does not defer admissions decisions, but if you wish to switch your application to a different intake, this can be done at ontariocolleges.ca. You may also call Ontario Colleges directly for assistance. The toll-free number is 1-888-892-2228
The Admissions Office is still reviewing the application. Decisions will not be made by a specific date. Please continue to check Stu-view for any updates
Due to the competitive nature of the program, a final decision has not been made. This means that we are unable to release an offer to you at this time. This may change at a later date and applicants are encouraged to continue to check Stu-view for any status updates.
You may book an appointment with an Assessment Advisor to review your test results with academic recommendations, such as areas of improvement and academic upgrading options. To book an appointment, please call: (416) 415 – 5000 ext. 4992 or email assessmentadvisor@georgebrown.ca 
You should try to write your admissions assessment (test) by the deadline date indicated in your letter from the college, to ensure you complete the application in a timely manner and secure your spot in your program of choice.
You may still write the test after the deadline, and it will not affect your ability to book the test.
Eligible applicants are able to write the admissions assessment (test) only once per intake. There are three intakes per academic cycle (Fall, Winter and Spring).
Yes, we can accept a credit towards an application. Please ensure that your documentation is submitted via OCAS as soon as possible, and please alert George Brown College to the fact that you are completing the credit.
Admissions assessment (test) results are valid for one academic year. Applicants have the option to re-test for another intake if they wish to improve their results.
Yes, you may continue to take the admissions assessment (test). If you are successful and your results are competitive, you will be placed on the program waitlist, since the program is closed.
If you missed the deadline to accept your offer, but still wish to accept it, please call the Admissions Office at: 416.415.5000 ext. 4805 and Press 5 to leave a message. Decisions to extend offer deadlines are made on a case by case basis. If there is space available, you will be contacted by telephone and advised of next steps. If there are no spaces available at the time, you will be placed on a waitlist and contacted only if a space becomes available.
If you missed the deadline to pay, but still wish to pay and attend George Brown, please call the Admissions Office at: 416.415.5000 ext. 4805 and Press 4 and leave a message. Decisions to reinstate acceptances and accept late payments are made on a case by case basis. If there is space available, you will be contacted by telephone and advised of next steps. If there are no spaces available at the time, you will be placed on a waitlist and will be contacted only if a space becomes available.
Log on to ontariocolleges.ca to accept your offer. This acceptance will be downloaded to George Brown College the next business day.
A waitlist is established when there are more eligible candidates than available space in a program. Applicants are placed on the waitlist based on their ranking against other applicants for that intake.
Positions on the waitlist change regularly, depending on the number of qualified applicants. Unfortunately, we are unable to give you a definite date as to when you will hear a decision. This is dependent on the time of year, the program, and the number of qualified applicants. If space becomes available, applicants on the waitlist are notified by letter, email and/or telephone and are given a specific time to reply. Any available spaces are first offered to applicants at the top of the waitlist, in descending order.
No. Your waitlist status is only valid for the intake (e.g. Fall, Winter Spring), that you have applied to. If you are interested in another intake you will need to re-apply at ontariocolleges.ca
Yes. Protected Persons, Refugee Claimants, or Convention Refugees are required to obtain a study permit for engaging in education or training that is more than 6 months in duration. Students must have a valid study permit in order to begin studying at George Brown College, if the program is more than 6 months and/or their intention is to study longer than 6 months. Details can be found by visiting Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada.
After receiving an offer of admission, you must apply for a study permit. Please note that Study Permits are not issued inside Canada. You must apply online or at the nearest Canadian Embassy, High Commission or Consulate. Official information on requirements can be obtained from an IRCC (formerly CIC) office in Canada, a Canadian Embassy or Consulate overseas and/or the IRCC (formerly CIC) website at: https://www.canada.ca/en/services/immigration-citizenship.html
Though staff members in the Admissions Office endeavour to respond as promptly as possible to inquiries, there may be a delay in receiving a response from your Admissions Officer due to the high volume of applications. Here are some other suggested contacts at the college:
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.