
The Admission Assessment in English, Math and/or Science is taken by mature applicants as part of the application process. The Admission Assessment measures if the applicant has the academic skills required to start the program.
A mature applicant is a person who is 19 years of age or older on the start date of the program, and who does not have the required program credit(s) i.e., Grade 12 English.
For more information, please visit our main Assessment Centre page.
If you have already accepted an offer of admission from George Brown College, you may need to take a Placement Assessment.
You will receive a letter with the admission assessment information from the Registrar’s Office. You should book your appointment immediately upon receipt of your testing letter.
Leave yourself some time to review and prepare for the assessment as the results are important to your admission process.
Please Note:
Placement and Admission testing will be taking place in-person on campus at 200 King Street East unless you have been notified otherwise.
If you are outside the Greater Toronto Area, please contact the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 to book an appointment or email assessmentcentre@georgebrown.ca.
Booking Online: Domestic Students can book an appointment via their STU-View account. If you do not have a 9-digit student ID number or password needed to log in to STU-View, you can call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000.
Booking by Phone: Call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000. Have your 9-digit student ID number ready.
If you have not registered with George Brown College Accessible Learning Services and you think you might require test accommodations, please see our Testing Accommodations for Applicants and New Students page.
Types of payment accepted:
NOTE: Personal cheques are not accepted.
A valid form of government issued photo ID to confirm your identity.
Acceptable forms of photo ID include the following:
To learn more, view our General Preparation Checklist.
Please visit our Admission Assessments by Program page to see which assessments may be required for the program you are interested in.
You can visit our Preparation and Resources section to see some suggestions of how you can prepare for your assessment.
You will not receive any results on the day that you take the assessment.
Once you complete your assessment, your scores will be submitted to the George Brown College Admissions Office. They will review your results and they will notify you if you are offered a place into the program(s) via your STU View account and by email.
Please note that your application cannot proceed until you have completed all parts of your Admission Assessment.
After an admission decision has been made, you may wish to meet with an Assessment Advisor to go over your assessment results. You can make an appointment to do so by calling the Assessment Advisor Line. Advisors cannot discuss assessment results over the phone.
Domestic students who are living out of province may be eligible to complete the admission assessment at an off-site location. You will be required to make arrangements at a test centre at your local educational institution, 
Only invigilators working in a full-time teaching, administrative, or counselling position in a recognized post-secondary institution (college or university) will be approved. 
The following form must be completed by the student and test invigilator: 
Request to Write Off-Site Form 
By certified cheque or money order, mailed to:
George Brown College Assessment CentreRoom 275A200 King Street EastToronto, ONM5A 3W8
Personal cheques are not accepted. The Assessment Centre is not responsible for any proctoring fees required by the chosen institution.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.