
The admission assessment determines if the program applicant has the academic skills required to start the program.  The admission assessment is taken by Mature Applicants. A Mature Applicant is a person who is 19 years of age or older on the start date of the program and who does not have the required academic credit(s), for example Grade 12 English.  Depending on the program, the assessment covers skills in English, math and/or science. Other program-specific tests may be administered as well.
Once the applicant becomes a student, the admission assessment results are used to place the student into the appropriate level of English and/or math courses. Students with a lower level of skills are placed into foundation-level courses for the purpose of further skill development. Students taking foundation-level courses may be charged additional course fees.
Students who do not need foundation-level support are placed into college-level English and/or math courses.For more information about the admission assessment and assessment preparation, visit the Assessment Centre.
The placement assessment is taken by students already admitted to George Brown programs. 
The placement assessment results are used to place the student into the appropriate level of English and/or math courses. Students with a lower level of skills are placed into foundation-level courses for the purpose of further skill development. Students taking foundation-level courses may be charged additional course fees. Students who do not need foundation-level support are placed into college-level English and/or math courses.
Students who have not completed their placement assessment by the deadline (published in Academic Calendar Dates) are automatically placed in foundation-level English and/or math courses.
If you require accommodations for your placement test, please register with Accessible Learning Services before you book your placement test.
For more information about the placement assessment and assessment preparation, visit the Assessment Centre.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.