
Check out the inspiring and successful career paths of people just like you. Find out how George Brown helped these former students achieve their career goals.
Studying for my 3-year Diploma at George Brown College was a truly amazing experience enabling me to learn industry essentials and be acquainted with a diverse pool of human capital. Being an international student, I felt welcomed and received great help from the faculty in navigating educational resources as well as Canadian Educational System in general. I have only positive things to say about professors and faculty. It was impressive to have industry professionals teaching the business acumen while sharing their real- world experiences. I learned a great deal of industry specific skills, such as formal business writing, clear and concise communication, computer technology, and, most importantly, financial services fundamentals. Gratefully, with my Diploma from Gorge Brown College, I was able to enroll in undergraduate studies at Ryerson University. Not only was I able to receive credits for all my courses taken at George Brown College but also successfully graduate with a Bachelor of Commerce, Economics and Management Science Degree. Undoubtedly, George Brown College provided me with strong foundation to excel in my undergraduate studies and successfully commence my career in financial services industry.
I had never known how gratifying it could be to taking this program until I started working at Humber. Taking the Financial Planning Advanced Diploma Program was one of the best decisions I could have made, mainly because of the hands-on experience I got prior to my joining the workforce. I sincerely appreciate all of the support that George Brown provided me in my studies, not only the staff but the awards were instrumental in my success. I will always remember this, and I am looking forward to the day when I can pay it back ten-fold.
George Brown College and Professors gave me tremendous insights, knowledge and great guidance in pursuing the career of my choice. I would strongly suggest taking this program as it will really expand your ability to comprehend the markets and the financial industry. Graduate from the finance program here at GBC and the opportunities are endless. The sky is the limit!!
"George Brown opened the door to the real world for me. Without it, I would not have gained the experience I now have."
George Brown started Melly Guan on an educational pathway that just keeps going. After completing the College's three-year Business Administration - Accounting program, she then moved on to Ryerson University's Bachelor of Commerce degree, and after she finishes, in Spring 2017, she is contemplating doing a master's degree focused on tax at the University of Waterloo. Or she may also go and find a job in her field. [Read Melly Guan's Story...]
"George Brown College provided me with a base that I needed to start my career in the accounting/financial industry."
Rushi Patel has known since high school that he wanted to be an accountant. Growing up in the town of Nadiad in the state of Gujarat, India, he might not have known that he would carry out that quest via George Brown College's Business Administration – Accounting Advanced diploma program. Or that he would end up as a Senior Investment Accountant with State Street Corporation just two years after graduation. [Read Rushi Patel's story...]
Pursuing a diploma in Business Administration - Finance at George Brown taught me the inner workings of the finance industry while preparing me to succeed in a competitive business environment. During my studies, professors connected concepts from the classroom with real-world applications to ensure a smooth transition into the workplace. By providing networking opportunities and access to countless job fairs, the program was designed to facilitate both professional and personal growth. My experience at George Brown has given me the education and skills necessary to succeed in my career.
"George Brown certainly made me feel very welcome coming from a different background. This program will not just prepare you for a job in a bank or a stock brokerage firm, it'll just give you so much more."
Hear more about Jing Jing Yang's story in our video:
"I went through the Business Administration: financial services program and then moved forward with the B.Comm degree provided by George Brown College. The professors and faculty members were helpful and highly knowledgeable. I participated in a consulting class where I worked with real-life problems and was also part of Enactus (formerly SIFE) in George Brown college, where I developed my presentation skills while competing regionally and nationally against other colleges and universities. I gained practical skills and connections that have made positive contribution to my career."
"I am very grateful to George Brown College and its faculty for priceless knowledge, experience, support and mentorship. The Business Administration - Financial Planning program gives students an opportunity to learn and receive an invaluable piece of advice from the industry professionals directly (faculty staff, guest speakers, and advisory board members). A George Brown College Diploma gave me an opportunity to get a job at Scotiabank as a Financial Advisor, Associate Professional Banker and most recently continue my wonderful journey as a Small Business Advisor."
"George Brown helped me realize that education alone is not sufficient to obtain employment in today's job market. Alongside education, a successful candidate requires hands-on skills and experience."
As Gurjinder Singh talks about his career path, it's clear that he's constantly absorbing new experiences and adjusting his plans to find the best route. And the strategy is working—he loves his job as an analyst in Scotiabank's Commercial Banking Development Program, and was recently selected as one of a handful to participate in the company's nine-month leadership development rotation program. [Read Gurjinder Singh's story...]
"I chose George Brown because it offered a degree program in the field."
One of the most valuable skills Sharon Bernal developed while studying at George Brown College's Centre for Business wasn't on any formal curriculum. "I am not a very social person by nature," says Bernal, who graduated with a Bachelor of Applied Business, Financial Services with a major in Accounting in 2011. "Being exposed to students and teachers from different backgrounds every day made me appreciate each person's uniqueness and really made me come out of my shell." That ability to network and socialize with ease on campus not only helped her land a job after graduation, but also made Bernal's first years in Canada much more rewarding. [Read Sharon Bernal's story...]
"George Brown balanced our theoretical knowledge with hands–on lessons."
Explore your options. It's simple advice, but by following it, Christopher Deir has taken his education to new heights. It began with a potential problem. As part of Ontario's double cohort graduates, Christopher faced increased competition for a post-secondary education spot. While on the waiting list for two universities, a friend recommended the new Bachelor of Applied Business program at George Brown College. [Read Christopher Deir's story...]
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.