
Culinary Management, 2015
Chef Aakash Dhall shares how his experiences at George Brown College helped guide him to success, including winning season 3 of Food Network Canada’s Fire Masters and as the research and development chef for 1 Hotel Toronto.
Architectural Technician, 2014
Abarna is working in the Unites States as a VDC Training Manager. She carries a passion for education and Building Information Management (BIM), with 10 years of work experience. Throughout her various roles at different firms, the two constants that she always encountered were BIM/VDC and fulfilling the informal educator role.
Culinary Management Program, 2020
Chef Aiko decided to follow her dream of cooking up Bajan street food and opening her own catering, called Bim Street Eats.
Honors Bachelor of Technology-Construction Management, 2022
Aliya has always been fascinated by architecture. She came to Canada from Tanzania, studied architectural technology, and went on to construction management.
She adapted to Canadian life, made the Dean’s list and received several merit-based scholarships while at GBC. In 2022 she has been nominated for the Premier’s Awards in the Recent Graduate Category.
 
Culinary Management Nutrition, 2010
In 2009, Amy Symington was working on her Culinary Management – Nutrition diploma at George Brown when she started to volunteer at Gilda's Club Toronto, doing culinary nutrition workshops for the members. Among these were supper clubs held two nights a week to help facilitate attendance at evening-based group meetings.
Graphic Design, 2023
Graphic designer, Ben O’Neil was proud to be a part of his fellow grads’ convocation celebrations in 2023. He designed the massive and colourful mural outside Meridian Hall that served as the backdrop for family and friend pictures and selfies. 
 
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management), 2013
GBC grad Bennett Stableforth comes full circle as a project manager for Limberlost Place.
Culinary Skills, 2015
Braden is the Head Chef at MIMI Chinese, a restaurant in Yorkville, that brings dishes from across China to Toronto.
Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care Program, 2021
As part of her program, Cassandra was asked to make “friendly visits” with residents at retirement homes. When she realized how meaningful these interactions were, it was an epiphany. As COVID10 confined residents to their rooms and exacerbated their loneliness, Cassandra developed and innovative program allowing residents to use iPads so they could engage with each other.
Dance Performance, 2022
Chabi grew up in Panama City, Panama and has been dancing since her early years, starting with creative movement and tap, then slowly progressing into ballet. She kicked off her Dance Performance program with George Brown College through video training during the pandemic, then participated in Ballet Jörgen’s Mentorship program, and has been a part of the Junior Company and performed in exciting productions like The Nutcracker.
Carpenter General Apprentice Certificate, 1991
Carpenter, union leader and equity, diversity and inclusion champion Chris Campbell, alum is passionate about helping others succeed in the skilled trades.
Special Events Management, 2014
As a family man, adventurer and world traveller, Chris’ commitment to living a life of purpose and contribution are seen through his leadership and influence in the Toronto Cider Festival he co-founded. Chris’ appetite for having an impact on the world has led him to collaborate with some of the world’s most prolific events, such as TIFF, the Pan Am Games and the Commonwealth Games, all while continuing his entrepreneurial endeavours.
Digital Communications and Media/Multimedia, 2022
Courtney is a true serial entrepreneur having entered her entrepreneurial journey thanks to the encouragement of a fellow classmate, who was so impressed with her work style that she asked Courtney to become a cofounder. They went on to create an amazing brand.
Theatre Arts, 2006
Check out the recipe for “sweet success” by GBC alum Craig Pike founder of Craig’s Cookies.
Career and Work Counsellor Program, 1995
Although from a seventh-generation Canadian family, Darrell was the first to go to college and university.
Fast forward, in 2022 he has been nominated for the Premier’s Award in the Community Services Category.
 Post-Grad Italian, 2023
As a recent graduate of the college, Darryl has experienced firsthand the life-changing perks of tapping into the strong network of mentorship and support the college offers. 
During his postgraduate program, he completed an externship at a three-Michelin-star restaurant Osteria Francescana in Italy, and most recently he landed an exciting opportunity at London’s HIDE, working along a fellow alum.
Millinery Certificate, 2003
David Dunkley, Toronto milliner headed to London for coronation-related events and parties with his beautiful hats!
Business, 1984
David moved from Montreal to Toronto in 1980 for a three-year Business/Marketing program at George Brown College. Engaging deeply at GBC, he took on roles as the music director and station manager at the campus radio station GBFM. Transitioning into the wellness business in 2010, he founded a studio, specializing in Taichi and Qigong. David credits his diverse career and GBC education for his success, emphasizing the significance of cultivating relationships.
Culinary Skills, 1981
Award-winning culinary artisan Chef David Wolfman is a professor at the College since 1994. He has not only revolutionized the culinary landscape here in Canada, but he has also changed the way the world thinks about Indigenous and North American cuisine. He has won multiple educational, industry, and community service awards. 
Commercial Dance, 2011
As George Brown Dance graduate and current faculty member, Derick approaches all aspects of life imaginatively, and his career is no exception. He shares how he has found a life of creativity in dance and encourages emerging dance artists to explore the diverse paths available in the performing arts.
Culinary Management, 2022
Diego, with a decade of experience in pastry at global hotels like The Ritz Carlton and JW Marriott, achieved the position of Executive Pastry Chef at Hyatt Centric San Isidro, Peru. Driven by a desire for further education, he enrolled at George Brown College, immersing himself in a transformative post-COVID classroom setting. Beyond culinary studies, courses in business, sustainability, and marketing at GBC provided valuable insights, paving the way for his entrepreneurial journey. With a focus on ethically sourced cocoa, Diego launched a chocolate shop, leveraging multicultural insights gained at GBC for innovative flavour profiles.
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas Program, 2020
Dyan Grace Abadonio, a George Brown College alum, transformed her nursing dream into reality, overcoming unconventional challenges. She joined as a mature student, completed her studies, and now works as a Registered Practical Nurse, proving that age is no barrier.
Fashion Techniques and Design, 2019
Emefa Kuadey started her successful fashion design business while still in college. Through her hard work and creative designs, she has achieved significant success and brand recognition, particularly in light of her company's online and in-store partnership with mega-retailer Hudson's Bay. Her impressive work and path from civil engineering into the world of fashion has been featured in the November 2023 issue of Canadian Fashion Magazine.
 
Community Worker Program, 2019
Emily is an artist from the Algonquin’s of Pikwàkanagàn First Nation, and is of mixed heritage Anishinaabe and French. She works under the name Eagle Woman Arts in her creative practice. Her work is inspired by her community, as well as the teachings she’s picked up along the way. 
Denturism Program, 2010
Currently serving as the Vice President of Clinical Removable Prosthetics and Design Technology at Aspen Dental, Eric’s journey from a GBC student to a prominent figure in his industry serves as an inspirational story for current and prospective students aiming to follow in his footsteps. As a researcher, educator, author, and leading authority in denturism, Eric helps develop protocols and materials for dental clinicians and technicians around the world.
Culinary and Hospitality Management, 2011
Eric Y. Wang, a George Brown College Culinary and Hospitality Management graduate, transformed his life into a successful entrepreneur. His innovative approach to restaurant management challenges the traditional tipping system, aiming to combat racial bias.
Computer Programming and Analysis, 2015
Esther started as a software developer at Loblaw Digital in 2018, quickly moving her career forward. In 2019, Evoke, one of North America's largest tech conferences, named her one of the recipients of the Developer 30 under 30 Award. She said the award prompted both celebration and reflection.  
Construction Engineering Technician, 1994
Eugene is currently the Vice President of Construction at Great Gulf, a major residential construction company, where he emphasizes teamwork and shared responsibilities. He continues to contribute to advancing the construction industry on three major, deeply interconnected fronts: technology, health and safety, and education.
Theatre Arts, 2009
Evan has been a successful actor and voice-over artist since his graduation. Now he is part of the hit musical “Merrily We Roll Along” at Broadway’s Hudson Theatre and on stage with Daniel Radcliffe, Jonathan Groff and Lindsay Mendez! 
Analytics for Business Decision Making, 2020
Fahd already had 12 years of experience in the telecommunications, fast-moving consumer goods, aviation, education and transportation industries when he moved to Toronto from Bangladesh in 2018. Pursuing a postgraduate degree at GBC was a transformative decision that equipped him with valuable skills and exposed me to the Canadian corporate landscape.  
Construction Trades Techniques, 2018
With an engineering degree already in hand, Farrah needed a hands-on experience to enhance her practical skills.
She now manages key design aspects of major projects around the GTA.
Screenwriting & Narrative Design, 2021
In 2023 Fateema was one of the two GBC alumni among 18 storytellers selected for the prestigious Canadian Film Centre Norman Jewison Film Program.
Digital Media Marketing, 2023
Gianmarco Sinisi has seamlessly translated his academic prowess into spearheading a revolutionary approach to business technology. With a keen understanding of marketing and sales integration, Gianmarco aims to reshape the landscape for business owners and influencers worldwide.
Culinary Skills Program, 2019
Grace is used to cooking in very tight spaces. She measures out ingredients before getting started, chops vegetables in advance and always cleans up as she goes. She is a private chef who has worked on superyachts in the Caribbean, Bahamas and the United States.
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management), 2021
Soon after graduation Janesh became a project coordinator at a construction company, overseeing project schedules, budgets, and onsite safety protocols.
He believes, scholarships allow learners to move forward in their studies and careers with confidence.
Fashion Management, 2009
Janielle Mckoy is a renowned style expert, visual display artist, and costume buyer for film and television. Currently, Janielle stars as a guest expert on the popular Canadian morning show “Cityline”, sharing the latest fashion trends. She is also a fashion stylist and TV Guest Expert at Today’s Shopping Choice.
Baking and Pastry Arts Management, 2022
Many students come to George Brown College’s Chef School with dreams of baking show stardom. Jasmine Linton did the reverse.
After making it to the quarter-finals of season three of The Great Canadian Baking Show, Jasmine started her first year of the Baking and Pastry Arts Management program in September 2020.
Special Events Management Program, 2017
Meet Jill Romain, co-owner of Bloom Bar Studio, where floral artistry meets specialty wines and fresh coffee. With a background in events, Jill transformed a lockdown idea into a vibrant space on St. Clair West, offering unique experiences, delightful treats, and carefully curated wine options.
Culinary Skills, 2022
Chef School graduate Joe Sarnovsky recounts his experience working in Ukraine with the World Central Kitchen (WCK)
Instructing Adults, Workforce Development & Training, 2015
During the startGBC Winter2023 semester, Bootcamp cohort participant Joëlle Jacqueline attended every session, provided motivation and encouragement to other cohort members. She has a wealth of operational knowledge and process development expertise to help establish businesses and enhance business performance. Joëlle also has a passion for working with people and developing their talents.
Community Worker Program, 2011
Jolene May is Anishinaabe from Whitefish River Birch Island. She is highly motivated in Indigenous student success initiatives and was the first-ever elected Indigenous student representative to have a seat on the Student Association Board of George Brown College. Jolene is passionate about helping Indigenous students be successful in their education journey and is excited to help students by assisting them with their needs while attending GBC.
Food and Beverage Program, 1995
Joey Ma's transformative journey with George Brown College began as a culinary student and evolved into her current role as Operations Manager of the Inventory Control Centre. As a proud alumna and dedicated employee, Joey champions GBC's strategic priorities, notably emphasizing lifelong learning and advocating for diversity, equity, and inclusion within the college community.
Computer Programming and Analysis, 2023
Jensen, a member of the Chippewas of Rama First Nation, was one of six Indigenous students to be awarded a $10,000 scholarship from the Ontario Power Generation’s (OPG) John Wesley Beaver Memorial Scholarship program.
Jensen looks forward to putting his advanced diploma to use as he searches for a role in front-end development with a focus on improving the user experience.
Recreation Management in Gerontology Program, 2021
Meet Joy Flores, our outstanding Recreation Management in Gerontology Program 2021 graduate, now a dedicated programs therapist at the O’Neill Centre, Toronto. Her person-centered approach fosters deep connections, transforming residents' lives. Joy's commitment exemplifies the essence of Person-Centred Language initiatives and has been awarded the Inaugural Person-Centred Language Award.
Business Administration Marketing 2021
Julia Huynh had already completed a law degree in Vietnam when she decided to pursue her dream of studying abroad and finding a career that aligned more with her passions. After a successful journey at George Brown College pursuing marketing and an interest in mental health advocacy, she’s now giving back as an alumni mentor to current students through the Centre for Business’ Student-Alumni Mentorship Program.
Community Worker, 2018
Kayla has made significant contributions in the area of death and grief counselling. Through her company, Good Death Doula, as well as her work with the Home Hospice Association and Death Cafe, Kayla has positively impacted her community and brought a pragmatic and compassionate perspective to care for persons at the end of their lives.
Career and Work Counsellor Program, 2007
Ken Hall, an acclaimed public speaker and winner of the Canadian Comedy Award, is known for his standout performance as Herb in Netflix's "The Umbrella Academy." With multiple CCA nominations, including Comedic Artist of the Year, Ken brings over a decade of experience as an accomplished career counsellor. His diverse talents not only shine in acting but also underscore his dedication to both education and entertainment.
Post-Grad Italian, 2018
While at GBC, lessons learned from chef instructors motivated and inspired Kevin to keep working, keep pushing and taking on opportunities across the world.
Today he is the Sous Chef at HIDE Above in London (UK).
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management), 2016
Latifa is building a sustainable future. She is the project coordinator for major solar panel farms in Australia, coordinating with contractors and colleagues in North America, Europe and Asia; managing delivery schedules and meetings across multiple time zones. 
Fashion Techniques and Design, 2017
Fashion designer, entrepreneur and George Brown College graduate Lesley Hampton has been honoured by the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business (CCAB) for her professional success. 
Sport and Event Marketing, 2014
Marc Pannia took the skills he developed while studying at the Centre for Business and used them to carve out a successful career in the film industry. The George Brown College alumnus works for the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF), produces Oscar-nominated films and writes and directs his own projects.
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Financial Services) Program, 2021
After graduating from George Brown College, Maria became a Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA) Ambassador, excelled in the CPA rotational program at George Weston Limited, and now aims to mentor and inspire others.
Sport and Event Marketing, 2002
In March of 2023 Hockey Canada named Marin the first vice-president of women's and girls' hockey of the organization. Later in October Marin received the “2023 Alumni Achievement Award” by 5 to Watch: Canada’s Sports Business Awards, that recognizes the contributions and leadership of sports business professionals.
Sport and Event Marketing, 2006
Melonie is a pioneer and advocate for the inclusion of women in technology-focused industries. She has attained a high level in her industry as a certified Project Manager Professional (PMP) and SAFe Agilist as well as a SCRUM Master II, while serving as a mentor and international speaker. 
Fashion Management, 2015
Melonie Lawrence is a Toronto-based fashion stylist and creative director. Her successful styling career has allowed her to work with many high-profile television personalities and contribute as the key stylist for acclaimed shows like HGTV's Home to Win and AMI's Fashion Dis makeover show. Melonie has also played a pivotal role in shaping the aesthetics of nationwide commercial campaigns for brands such as Shoppers Drug Mart, President’s Choice, Chevrolet, ADT, Shiseido, and many others.
Digital Media Marketing Program, 2016
For School of Marketing alum Michael Jacobsen, becoming a mentor to current business students was an easy decision. 
General Carpentry, 1986, and Labour Studies, 1989
Mike co-founded the College of Carpenters and Allied Trades and has been instrumental in ensuring workers have up-to-date skills. He has participated in humanitarian construction projects in several countries, as well as supporting local programs to interest youth-at-risk in the trades.
Screenwriting & Narrative Design, 2017
Mitchell is a screenwriter, narrative designer, director, actor and part-time professor at GBC and a Resident at the at CFC’s Norman Jewison Film Program in 2023.
Marketing Management – Digital Media, 2022
After completing a business management degree in the U.K. and working in digital marketing for nearly five years, Layo Folami decided to pursue a formal digital marketing education to take her career to the next level.
Fashion Management, 2019
Natasha Roberts is running a business in style with her mom!
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management), 2016
From George Brown College to the other side of the Globe! Nicholas is on the forefront of PCL Construction's renewable energy business unit in New South Wales, Australia, overseeing the construction of solar farms as a project manager.
Mechanical Technician – CNC and Precision Machining Program T173, 2020
Niravkumar Dilipbhai Prajapati joined George Brown College for the Mechanical Technician & Precision Machining program in 2018. The program’s CO-OP experiences have paved his way for a successful career as a Mechanical Designer.
Information System Business Analysis, 2013
Ramkumar devoted his time and career to empowering people through education, providing technology training for 4000 plus individuals across Ontario facilitating the training needed to work in the technology sector. His work has garnered recognition by major tech companies, with him serving as Google's "Mentor East Canada Region" and "Women TechMaker Ambassador.
Business Administration Accounting, 2017
Ramneet has been named one of the 2023 ApplyBoard International Alumni of Impact Winners.  She is an exemplar of perseverance, innovation, and compassion. Her trailblazing efforts at Isempower (co-founded by her) and commitment to international student success have positively contributed to Canada's professional landscape.
Culinary Skills, 2016
Chef Raquel Fox was named among the winners of the 2022 Top 25 Canadian Immigrant Award and credits GBC as an inspiration for her cooking style.
2017 Culinary Management program
Chef alum Ravneet Singh celebrates the opening of his first restaurant 'Barkat' - a real Toronto gem. 
Culinary Arts Program, 2011
Financial services executive, chef and accessible education advocate Ray Williams, alum is dedicated to creating opportunities for others.
His career began in London’s financial district. He brought his young family to Canada, where he is currently the Vice-Chairman of Financial Markets.
Analytics for Business Decision Making Program, 2023
Rayeheh Rezaei is a distinguished alumna whose journey from academia to entrepreneurship showcases resilience and innovation. Combining her academic excellence with a decade of professional soccer, Rayeheh founded a Canadian brand specializing in eco-friendly and innovative water bottles for active lifestyles. Her success is marked by a commitment to quality and innovation, making her a source of inspiration for aspiring entrepreneurs. Rayeheh's story underscores the transformative impact of education and passion on shaping a successful entrepreneurial career.
Practical Nursing Program, 2020
Nursing graduate, Reham Ahmed returned to GBC to run a community COVID-19 vaccination clinic.
Culinary Management, 2001
Roger is a globally recognized, Trinidadian born, Canadian raised talent that creates immersive experiences in the Arts.  As a celebrity chef, restaurateur, television host, author, and award-winning recording artist, he has earned an international reputation as a multi-media artist and entertainer showcasing a globally inspired vision that reflects his rich family heritage, love for people and travel. Roger is best known as the host of the internationally celebrated grilling and barbecue show “Man Fire Wood”.
Construction Engineering Technician - Management, 1999
Twenty-two years after graduating from George Brown College’s (GBC) construction engineering technician management program, Gueye is pursuing an apprenticeship at the College of Carpenters and Allied Trades in Vaughan, Ont.
 
Fashion Techniques and Design Program, 2006
Co-founder and executive & artistic director of the bi-annual celebratory Indigenous Fashion Arts in Toronto, Sage, a Denesuliné tskwe member of the English River First Nation works to express and sustain Indigenous culture. She learned to sew and bead as a child, loved fashion, and enrolled in a fashion techniques and design program.
Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management), 2023
With the help of startGBC, Sand launched a food stall for her authentic Thai cuisine takeout business Baan. She participated in high-profile summer food festivals in Toronto, including Smorgasburg and the Taste of Lawrence. 
Sheet Metal Apprenticeship, 2012
Shayne returned to teach at the School of Apprenticeship & Skilled Trades as he believes in keeping things current through ongoing improvement and mentoring of the next generation. He trained the 2023 bronze medal winner student for the Skills Ontario Competition in the Sheet Metal Category!
Business Marketing Program, 2021
When asked about GBC, Shuang Wu lights up with joy as she shares how much the College means to her. 
Wu moved from China to Canada in 2020, looking for new opportunities after an engineering degree and almost a decade of working in the pharmaceutical industry. She wanted to expand her marketing knowledge and attend a good school in an exciting city.
Read Shuang's story
Culinary Management Diploma, 2009 and CAPS Sommelier Certificate, 2012
Stephanie Guth's passion for travel led her to a hospitality career, which she cherishes for its global opportunities. Combining her new career in wine with her passion for travel, Guth went on to work as a sommelier in restaurants in the UK and New Zealand. She values the strong sense of community in the food and beverage industry, where lifelong friendships were born during her time at George Brown.
Food and Nutrition Management, 2012
Victoria hails from St. Lucia but journeyed to Toronto at 21 to pursue studies at George Brown College, specializing in Hospitality Management and Haute Cuisine. After gaining experience in St. Lucia's hospitality sector, she returned to further her education in Food and Nutrition Management. Inspired by a vision to introduce authentic St. Lucian flavours to Canada's culinary landscape, Victoria launched a distinctive line of all-natural sauces and spices, aiming to be among the pioneering St. Lucian product creators in Canada.
Construction Engineering Technology, 2021
While in school, Vincent has received a student award, that greatly contributed to his academic success. It was a precarious time in 2020, when he had recently arrived from Vietnam. After graduating he started working as a junior estimator, and now is a project co-ordinator with a goal of becoming a project manager someday.
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management), 2019
Wilson started as a labourer and worked his way through a couple different roles within construction. His goal was to eventually manage and lead, but he wanted to fully understand different parts of the business before doing so.
Special Events Management, 2021
Sports have always been Zvi’s true calling. As an avid basketball fan, he has a profound appreciation for all sports and their power to bring people together.Currently, he works as a Brand Partnerships Coordinator at TSN. He also runs a successful sports media brand called The Raptors Insider, which he founded in 2018 and has grown to over 40,000 loyal followers.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.