
As a graduate and valued member of the George Brown College alumni community, we are proud to offer you exclusive value-added services and offers. 
Whether you're looking for insurance, banking products or planning your next vacation, Alumni Relations has got you covered.
Alumni Relations has negotiated special group rates for services that our alumni have indicated they would be most interested in receiving. Explore all of the amazing perks we have in store for you below:
Put your George Brown College Alumni car and home insurance plan to work with Economical.
Use your alumni benefits to get affordable rates on a variety of insurance plans from Manulife such as Health and Dental, Critical Illness and many more. Save money on costs not covered by your provincial plan and call in to get a quote.
Travel insurance is important to help protect you, your family or visitors to Canada from costs that can occur due to an unforeseen medical emergency during a trip or an unexpected reason to cancel or interrupt a trip. Travel Insurance from Manulife provides essential protection, whether you're a traveling Canadian, a visitor to Canada or a student. 
Take advantage of great promotional offers that could put more money back in your pocket with Manulife Bank offers. 
Grads can access discounts, resources and facilities on campus such as: Learning Library Commons, Campus Stores, and Athletics and Recreation.
Receive exclusive deals and discounts on popular Ontario attractions such as Ripley's Aquarium, Stratford Festival, Falls Avenue Resort, Niagara Vintage Wine Tours and much more! 
We are currently developing a new Digital Alumni ID for all alumni, please update your contact information at the Alumni Profile Centre to keep in touch with us so that you’ll be notified once it’s ready. if you need to verify your alumni status to access some of the alumni benefits or privileges, please reach out to us at alumni@georgebrown.ca.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.