
Register Now
"The more that you read, the more things you will know. The more you learn, the more places you’ll go." - Dr. Seuss
Be a part of the George Brown College Alumni Community’s online Book Club! It’s free and you can enjoy lively and engaging discussions as you read novels, books on personal growth, career management, biographies, and many more genres.
Search for the title of the book at your local library, bookstore, or online. There will be two months dedicated to each book and during that time book club members will connect through a private forum led by a moderator to chat about various aspects of the story. If you have one to two hours a week to read, then you’ve got this!
January 5 – March 8, 2024Book: ‘Daughters of the Deer’ by Danielle Daniel
In this haunting, groundbreaking, historical novel, Danielle Daniel imagines the lives of her ancestors in the Algonquin territories of the 1600s, a story inspired by her family link to a girl murdered near Trois-Rivières in the early days of French settlement.
This beautiful, powerful novel brings to life women who have literally fallen through the cracks of settler histories. Especially Jeanne, the first child born of the new marriage, neither white nor Weskarini, but caught between worlds. As she reaches adolescence, it becomes clear she is two-spirited. In her mother's culture, she would have been considered blessed, her nature a sign of special wisdom. But to the settlers of New France, and even to her own father, Jeanne is unnatural, sinful--a woman to be shunned, and worse.
Learn more about the author
Joining the alumni book club is the perfect way to stay connected with the George Brown College community of friends, faculty, and staff. All this on your own timeline and from the comfort of your home!
Sign up or Log-in
PBC Guru manages professional book clubs for companies, libraries, and alumni associations. They will be moderating our book club to help make this program a great experience for all participants. Please email them at info@pbc.guru with any questions or visit their website at pbc.guru to see more of what they do.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.