
Your relationship with George Brown College doesn’t end at graduation. You become a member of our alumni network where we celebrate each other’s success, provide advice, workshops and mentorship, and access to great networking events.
George Brown College Alumni
Graduate 2012, Graphic DesignArt Director, Leo Burnett
“As an art director, I’m responsible for the visual communications of a brand… George Brown played a very important role in how I got my job today – it helped me develop my portfolio so I could showcase my skills and my craft.”
Graduate 2007, Financial PlanningSales Manager, Sun Life Financial
"I started as an advisor with Sun Life in 2007. In March 2010 I was promoted to be a sales manager in the Markham office… As a recruiter I go to different colleges and universities and different job fairs trying to look for new talent for our company. George Brown always has a very special spot in my heart"
Graduate 2006, Early Childhood Education programEarly Childhood Educator, Richmond-Adelaide Child Care Centre
“Working for a George Brown lab school is great because not only do I affect the lives of the children here, but also other children in the community as early childhood educators come to our centres to absorb information, go to workshops and take that information back to their community centres.”
Graduate 2015Architectural Technology ProgramTechnologist, Moriyama & Teshima Architects
“You have to know all the newest software and George Brown taught us all the latest software that’s used in the industry.”
2006 GraduateArchitectural Technology ProgramCo-Owner, Re: Placement Design Inc.
“I wanted to have the strongest foundation on the technical side of architecture and George Brown did that for me”
Graduate 2013, DenturismOwner, Dundas Bathurst Denture Clinic
“What I love most about George Brown College is that all of the instructors are always there to help you out. They also give you the equipment and materials to provide patients with the best quality of care.”
Graduates 2014, Culinary ManagementGeneral Manager (Tsoi) & Chef (Liu), Carmen’s Steak House
“The reason I chose George Brown is because of the connections. They have such a strong connections in downtown Toronto.” – Karan Tsoi
“I feel like I’m a complete cook right now because of George Brown College.” – Forrest Liu
Graduate 2008, Assaulted Women’s and Children’s Counsellor/Advocate programCommunity/Family Support Services, Griffin Centre
“When you love what you do that’s going to supersede everything else, and you’re able to stretch your open hand out to some of these families that may not have a voice."
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.