
Fees are for the 2023–2024 academic year and may be revised at the College's discretion. The Board of Governors sets fees within guidelines established by the Ontario government. Fees for programs starting in Fall 2024 or later are subject to increase. Total fees for most programs include the following:  
$27.00
$17.80 
Campus Service Enhanced Technology Fee
Athletic Capital fund fee.
Students that have to pay a refundable deposit for loaning/renting equipment specific to their programs will be refunded the full amount of their deposit, if the equipment is returned is good condition subject to normal wear and tear. A proportionate amount will be deducted from their deposit if the equipment is not returned in good condition which will be equivalent to having the equipment repaired and maintained as before.
*Students may apply for an exemption from this fee if they have comparable coverage. Please contact the Student Association Benefits Office at 416-415-5000, ext. 2443 for the opt-out deadline, as no applications receive after the deadline will be accepted. Part-time students are not eligible for insurance coverage.
** If choosing to opt-out, please log into STU-VIEW and select Financial Services > View Fees to submit your opt-out choice. If you have any questions, please visit any of the Student Association Offices for assistance. No refunds will be issued after the opt-out deadline.
Potential refunds and academic penalties are based on the date you submit a completed and signed program withdrawal form to the Registrar’s Office. Some programs do not refund material fees. A minimum of four weeks is required to process a refund. An administrative charge of $20 will apply for replacement cheques.
Example: If you withdraw from a program within 10 working days from the start of a semester, the tuition for that semester will be refunded (and any fees paid in advance for other semesters), minus the non-refundable deposit.
There is a $1000 withdrawal fee for most post-secondary programs. Please see the International Student Withdrawal & Refund Policy for further details, or contact the International Centre by e-mail at intlwithdrawal@georgebrown.ca or call 416-415-5000, ext. 2115.
You or the organization paying your fees will get the refund. For example, if you get an OSAP bursary for child care or disability-related expenses, your refund will be paid to the Treasurer of Ontario, not to you. The College pays the refund by cheque. For some programs, material fees are not refunded. For a copy of the international student refund procedures, contact the International Centre by e-mail at intladmissions@georgebrown.ca or call 416-415-5000, ext. 2115.
The tuition fees quoted here are regulated by the Ontario Ministry of Education and Training. These and other related fees listed above are for the 2023-2024 academic year. Fees are subject to change, without notice, with the approval of the Government of Ontario and/or the Board of Governors of George Brown College. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.