
George Brown College stands with, and in support of all Black students and employees.
The college acknowledges the systemic racism Black, Indigenous and other racialized people face. The journey ahead involves listening to hard conversations, reflecting on our own biases and complicity, and creating real change within our community.
George Brown College is enriched by the broad range of identities, experiences and beliefs of our students and employees.
An introductory resource about Anti-Black racism compiled by George Brown College
Definitions and ways to combat Anti-Black Racism microaggressions
Books for adults, teens and kids on #BlackLivesMatter and fighting racism, in Canada and beyond.
This committee aims to develop and implement anti-racist policies, practices and programs in support of an equitable and safe working and learning environment.
Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services lead in-person training called Challenging Anti-Black Racism: Education and Prevention. This training aims to explore the roots of racism in Canada. It also supports the participant to understand the impact of racism on an individual, institutional and societal level. The training provides resources to increase participants’ knowledge and understanding, as well as tools to challenge racism.
Training can be booked through Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services at diversity@georgebrown.ca.
The Black Student Success Network (BSSN) is a community of black students, faculty and staff dedicated to encouraging the success of black students at George Brown and beyond. BSSN provides a safe space in which to meet, share, socialize and learn from black community members and allies.
LEARN MORE ABOUT BSSN
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.