
Many leaders often feel ill-equipped or anxious when discussing race or implementing anti-racist practices in the workplace.
At times taking action towards confronting racism and inequities within the workplace can feel daunting, and we don’t always know where to begin. We all know there is work to do and that the work is vital, but often it is difficult to prioritize the work precisely because it feels overwhelming. Creating the long-lasting, systemic change needed to address racial injustice and societal inequities requires us all to act. This means that collectively, we must find opportunities within our circle of influence to find opportunities for action.
The purpose of this toolkit is to support leaders to start the dialogue, begin to explore their role in creating an anti-racist institution and deepen their understanding of what it means to be an anti-racist leader. The resources below provide a starting place for individual learning, group conversations and action. Begin anywhere; there is no right place to start. As a leadership team, you are encouraged to come together and actively share and reflect on the content and your corresponding actions. Share your new insights, ideas, and actions with your colleagues, teams, family, and community. It will take all of us working together to meet the challenges ahead; a cultural transformation requires collective commitment and collective action.
Below, we've put together various resources to help you get started confronting racism and inequities within the workplace.
In this toolkit, we have provided the following resources:
Disclaimer: We recognize that these resources may not be perfect and may contain views, opinions or information that do not necessarily reflect those of George Brown College, however, these items have been selected because we believe they provide an opportunity for discourse and supports engagement with these topics. We invite you to be curious, open, critical and kind in your exploration.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.