
Anti-Asian Racism is racism that is directed towards people of Asian descent. This includes biases, prejudices, attitudes and beliefs, stereotyping, discrimination, and harassment. Anti-Asian racism is not new, but it is on the rise across Canada. Harmful rhetoric around the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a significant increase in the number of reports of Anti-Asian harassment, discrimination, and violence. Experiencing Anti-Asian racism can be challenging and traumatic, and we encourage any individual who may be struggling to reach out for support.
Everyone has a role to play in challenging and interrupting Anti-Asian racism. See below for a list of resources to learn more about the roots of Anti-Asian racism, what it looks like today, and what you can do to end it. Also included is a list of community supports and supports available through George Brown College for people who have been impacted by Anti-Asian racism.
Fight COVID Racism is a website dedicated to tracking Anti-Asian racism during COVID-19. This website also includes multi-lingual resources and links to other important services.
Visit Fight COVID Racism
Project 1907 is a grassroots organization made up of Asian women that provides information about Anti-Asian racism during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Visit Project 1907
This is a resource from the Elementary Teachers Federation of Ontario and the Toronto District School Board.
View Addressing Anti-Asian Racism resource
This offers information on the history of Asian communities in Canada as well as resources to learn more about Anti-Asian racism.
Visit the Chinese Canadian Historical Society of BC
Black Women Radicals provides a reading list for Black and Asian-American Feminist Solidarities.
View the reading list
hollaback! provides online Bystander Intervention Training to stop Anti-Asian/American and Xenophobic harassment. Sign up on their website.
Sign up for Bystander Intervention Training
The council educates, engages and advocates for equity and justice for all in Canada. They provide resources and are running campaigns around stopping online hate and stopping the spread of racism.
Visit Chinese Canadian National Council - For Social Justice
They offer mental health services to the Cambodian, Chinese (Cantonese and Mandarin), Korean, and Vietnamese communities in Ontario.
Contact: 416-493-4242
Visit Hong Fook Mental Health Association
This clinic offers free legal services to low-income, non-English speaking clients from the Chinese, Vietnamese, Laotian, and Cambodian communities of Toronto.
Contact: 416-971-9674
Visit the Chinese and Southeast Asian Legal Clinic
They offer online mental health, coping, and self-care resources and strategies.
Visit Project Protech
This is the place to report Anti-Asian racism at the college. It is also the place to file a Human Rights Complaint. The OAREHRS team can also provide support and referrals.
Contact: diversity@georgebrown.ca
Visit OAREHRS
This team provides free and confidential counselling services to George Brown students.
Learn how access counselling
This organization offers free and confidential support services to post-secondary students in Ontario.
Contact: 1-866-925-5454
Visit Good2Talk
For students enrolled in the student health benefits program, We Speak Student, We Connect can provide 24/7 virtual/online and telephone counselling in multiple languages to students worldwide.
Contact: 1-888-377-0002
Visit We Connect
This program at George Brown is available to provide confidential support services to college employees.
Contact: 1-844-880=9142
Visit the Employee & Family Assistance Program
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.