
Completion of accessibility training is required by law and is a condition of employment at George Brown College. In accordance with the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act, all employees, volunteers, contractors or others who provide goods, services or facilities on behalf of the college are obligated to complete the following training modules available on Cornerstone (My Learning):
In addition to the modules listed above, completion of the Accessibility Awareness Training for Educators module is a requirement for any "employee who is involved in course design, delivery and instruction." (O. Reg. 165/16 s. 16). The module for educators is a self-directed PowerPoint file.
Additional modules may apply to specific employee groups and should be completed accordingly:
For ease of access, log in to Cornerstone (My Learning) and navigate to the “My Learning” menu. Select “Browse for Learning” and scroll down the list to locate the training modules applicable to your employee group. Please note, you may need to enable popups in your browser to access the modules.
Upon completion, a certificate for each module will be available in your Cornerstone (My Learning) transcript which is viewable to you and your supervisor.
Please note: the modules available on Cornerstone (My Learning) have been updated as of June 2018. Employees who have previously completed the mandatory AODA training will remain credited with their work. All new employees and any other employees who have not previously completed mandatory accessibility training must complete the new training modules, as mandated by the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA), 2005, S.O. 2005, c. 11, in alignment with related college policies. Staff wishing to complete refresher training may access these modules as well.
Any students or members of the public who would like to complete this training are encouraged to access the modules available online on AccessForward and on the Ontario Human Rights Commission website.
If you have any questions or concerns regarding the training requirements, please contact aoda@georgebrown.ca.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.