
You're in the right place! We know there are a lot of things to consider before you apply to college, so we've put together all the information you need. Here you'll find out about the application process step-by-step, as well as any admission requirements you may have to complete. You will also learn about financial aid, including the Ontario Student Assistance Program (OSAP), and how to apply for scholarships, awards and bursaries.  
Not sure about what you want to study or which program is right for you? We encourage you to book an appointment with one of our Entry Advisors who can help you figure out what's best for you.  
Are you coming from another post-secondary institution or have previous experience? Check out our Transfer Guide to see if you can get credit for what you've already accomplished.
Domestic Students  International Students

Follow our step-by-step guide to applying to George Brown College. If you have questions, remember we're only a phone call or email away.
Join an upcoming tour of our Casa Loma, St. James, or Waterfront Campus. Or visit our student residence, The George.
BOOK A TOUR
If you can't make it to George Brown in person, use our virtual tour to see inside our classrooms, labs and facilities.
Try a virtual tour
Learn about specific programs and to have your questions answered by program coordinators and faculty.
Sign up for an info session 
Check out our Career Coach tool to see which careers are in demand, starting salaries and related programs.
Visit Career Coach
You can search our full-time programs by interest, program type, or keyword. For part-time programs, check out our School of Continuing Education.
Try our Program Finder
Let us help you navigate our programs! Contact our Entry Advisors for free one-on-one sessions and workshops.
Book an appointment
Domestic students apply online through the Ontario Colleges Application Service (OCAS). Apply by the Feb. 1 deadline for equal consideration 
APPLY NOW
For more detailed application information, visit our How to Apply page.
International students can apply directly through the George Brown International Application portal. Check that your preferred program is available to international students.
Apply Now
For detailed application information as an international student, visit our How to Apply page.
Track the status of your application on our student information system, STU-VIEW. Log in with the username and password in your acknowledgement letter.
TRACK APPLICATION
Admission requirements (incl portfolio reviews or auditions) vary by program. Ensure you check the requirements for your program.
Admission Requirements
We will be in touch when your application has been processed. Your offer, your Letter of Acceptance, will be sent by email to the address you used when you submitted your application
Receiving an offer
Certain applications require an admission assessments determine if they the required academic skills to enter a program.
Learn about Assessments
Accept your offer through OCAS.
George Brown College will automatically be notified by OCAS of your acceptance after 1 business day. You can also accept your offer by calling OCAS at 1-888-892-2228.
ACCEPT YOUR OFFER NOW
Accept your offer through the George Brown Application Portal.
ACCEPT INTERNATIONAL OFFER
If your Offer of Admission is conditional, make sure you submit all the documents specified in your offer letter by the deadline date. Offers will be revoked if the required documents are not received by the stated deadline date.
Complete any required placement tests to help us place you into the appropriate English and/or Math courses necessary for your program. Please note that not all students are required to complete a placement assessment; the college will notify you if it is necessary.
Secure your seat by paying the non-refundable tuition deposit ($500 for domestic students). This deposit must be paid by the deadline within your offer letter.
FEE PAYMENT OPTIONS
Note: The process for paying tuition deposits is different for domestic and international students. If you are a new international student, login to your account at the Online Application for International Students portal to make the required fee payment by the deadline and accept your offer to confirm your seat.
Get help paying for college when you qualify for OSAP.
Learn about OSAP
At George Brown College we believe that financial resources shouldn't be a barrier to receiving an education.  Find out about options to help you pay for college including OSAP, awards, scholarships, bursaries and our work study program.
VISIT FINANCIAL AID
You may be eligible for program or course transfer credits if you are a college or university student or graduate.
Learn about transfer credits
Check your invoice on STU-VIEW for your payment amount/due date. Late payments will be subject to a non-refundable late fee of $150.
Pay on STU-VIEW
Make note of important dates including registration, awards, and tuition fee payment due dates.
Review important dates
Online registration for each term is staggered over 2 to 3 weeks. Check your registration start time on the homepage of STU-VIEW.
Check STU-VIEW
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.