
From Monday, January 8th, to Friday, January 19th, 2024, ​the College will consider late applications for open full-time post-secondary programs — i.e. programs which still have seats available for the Winter 2024 term. 
A list of open programs will be posted on our website and at the locations listed below – this list will be updated on a daily basis. Please remember that programs may fill up at any time.

Open programs will be indicated as such on our website, and will be available on ontariocolleges.ca
** Please note: Due to the high volume of applicants contacting the admissions staff members during start up, there may be a delay. Please be patient, as we ensure that each applicant receives our full attention.
New students must pay a non-refundable deposit to register. The deposit will be applied towards tuition fees for the first term. Your acceptance may be revoked if payment and registration are not completed within 24 hours. Please plan to pay and register as soon as possible.
This applies to students who applied or plan to apply for OSAP. You will be responsible for paying the remaining balance by the deadline even if your OSAP application is denied.​​​​
Check your Admissions Application Summary on STU-VIEW to see if you are required to complete an English and/or math placement test for your program. If so, book your test(s) via STU-VIEW or by calling the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000. For more information, visit the Assessment Centre website.
You are starting courses late and may have missed key instruction. It is your responsibility to get caught up on any work or assignments that might have been missed.
Here are some tips for success:
Assessment Centre
The Assessment Centre will be offering the Admission/Placement assessments both online and in-person. Please book your appointment through STU-VIEW paying close attention to the location.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.