
Is an addiction and/or mental health history holding you back from a successful career? Then Augmented Education may be the right fit for you! This supported, employment-focused program is offered free of charge and helps individuals with complex mental health challenges and/or addiction histories prepare for, find and maintain employment in either the food service or construction industry.
Augmented Education provides two program streams: the Construction Craft Worker Foundations Program and the Culinary Skills (Preparatory Training) Program.
Our programs offer:
Applicants are selected on the basis of:
Before applying to our program, we expect applicants to have an understanding of our program requirements, expectations and application process.
Augmented Education delivers in-person information sessions every month. If you would like to attend an information session, please register for one of our upcoming session dates:
Attend an information session for the Construction Craft Worker Foundations program (A106)Attend an information session for the Culinary Skills (Preparatory Training) program (A110)
Can’t make it for a live session? Watch our prerecorded information session video below:
 
The Construction Craft Worker Foundations program is a supportive employment-based program for individuals with complex mental health challenges and/or addiction histories.
The goal of this program is to help people with barriers to training and employment transition to meaningful and sustainable work. The program has been successful in assisting participants with taking the first steps towards employment in Toronto's construction industry.
This is a 20-week long blended program (combination of in-person and online courses) that runs from the beginning of April to the end of August and includes:
"Augmented Education has changed my life in more ways than one. My life before the program was going nowhere. Now, I'm really excited about my future. I can do whatever I put my mind to. The staff and professors made me ready for work and taught me how to build." Jesse Brown, Program GraduateConstruction Craft Worker Foundations Program, Class of 2017
Graduates will be awarded an Ontario College Certificate and will be qualified for entry-level construction jobs in the building trades including positions in construction labour, carpentry, masonry, cement finishing, construction retail and warehousing.   
We are currently accepting applications for Spring 2024! The application deadline is February 9, 2024 by 11:59 p.m. 
Learn More About A106 program Download a106 application package
 
The Culinary Skills (Preparatory Training) Program is a supportive, employment-based program for individuals with complex mental health challenges and/or addiction histories.
The goal of this program is to help people with barriers to training and employment transition to meaningful and sustainable work. The program has been successful in assisting participants with taking the first steps towards employment in Toronto's food service industry.
This is a 8-month long blended program (combination of in-person and online courses) that runs from the beginning of September to the end of April and includes:
"Prior to this program, I often felt isolated and depressed and I had to figure things out on my own. The job coaches gave me support and guided me towards new opportunities. Now, I'm filled with hope and find enjoyment within the stress of the kitchen."  Greta Batten, GraduateCulinary Skills (Preparatory Training) Program, Class of 2017
Successful participants will be awarded an Ontario College Certificate and will be qualified for entry-level jobs in commercial food service such as food preparation positions in cafeterias, fast food outlets, restaurants and catering operations.
We are currently accepting applications for Fall 2024! The application deadline is July 5, 2024 by 11:59 p.m. 
Learn More About A110 program Download a110 application package 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.