
Changes to our LLC Laptop Loan Policy as of December 18, 2023; visit Library News & Services to read more.
This guide will provide some introductory information about plagiarism and how to avoid it!
If you have any questions or concerns, remember to always ask your instructor and to consult George Brown College’s Code of Non-Academic Student Behaviour for further details.
Plagiarism is the act of taking credit for someone else's work.
It is a serious academic offence which includes presenting the work, words, images or thoughts of others as your own without identifying and giving proper credit to the original source.
The act of plagiarism can be intentional or unintentional. The consequences are just as serious.
Examples of plagiarism include (but are not limited to):
Citing your sources is an essential part of college research which allows you to acknowledge and use the works of others in your essays, research and assignments. If you don’t indicate where you got the information, you are plagiarizing!
Any information (including ideas!) that you did not create yourself must be credited using a citation method - the most popular are APA and MLA.  For more detailed information on how to cite your sources, please refer to the Citing Sources guide.
When you are doing research, working on assignments and writing papers, you are expected to follow certain rules. Understanding and complying with these rules will help you uphold academic honesty and avoid plagiarism.
Always remember to:
The OWL at Purdue University:  Check out their resources on Safe Practices, Quoting, Paraphrasing, and Summarizing.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.