
Starting your college career can be exciting and even overwhelming at the same time. To help you get started, we've put together some resources and guides. Whether college is a new experience for you, or you're joining us with previous experience, these key items will help set you up for success. And remember, you are not alone. So, if you have questions, reach out through our contact information at the bottom of the page. We're here to help!
Things to do before you start:
New students to the college can get a jump start on their college journey with GBC's Online Orientation! This site will help you carry out practical and administrative tasks like getting your digital Student ID, planning your academic accommodations (if needed), getting the steps to access equipment loans and much more before the semester even starts!
We have broken down Online Orientation into 6 different modules and a Resource Hub. You can do them one at a time, at your own pace, leading up to the beginning of the semester, and it's available to all new students for the duration of their entire first term.
Simply visit Online Orientation to get started!
We’ve put together a comprehensive site for your online learning needs at George Brown to help you be more successful. Find out about the college platforms used and how to navigate them, Brightspace, and personal and academic strategies you can use to be successful while you’re studying from home.
Eager and excited to start your journey at the college? Get a jump start before the rush and make the most of your college career by attending one of these pre-orientation days that happen a few weeks before each term begins. Learn about strategies and tips to get you started with confidence and to help you be successful at the college.
By attending one of these preparation days, participants will be taken through the process of completing key administrative tasks to get them set up on the right track and get a chance to network and meet other likeminded students. Friends and family are invited to join in these online sessions to learn about ways to support you in your college career. Spaces are limited and advance registration is required.
Register For Up & Running
Whether you're coming to college directly from high school or from the workplace, you may need to brush up on your math and English skills to help support your learning. In preparation for class and for your placement/assessment test (if applicable), you can access resources and tip sheets put together to help you succeed from the Assessment Centre and the Tutoring & Learning Centre (TLC). If you are required to take one of these tests, we recommend you book it as early as possible. Time slots for testing can be booked up very quickly when it's close to the beginning of the semester, so give yourself plenty of time to prepare.
TLC Resource Page 
Assessment Prep Materials 
Tips for Taking Tests Online 
Accessible Learning Services provides academic supports and services for all George Brown students with physical, sensory, learning, medical or mental health disabilities. If you are coming to George Brown directly from high school, please note that your EAP does not get carried over, and you will need to register with our Accessible Learning Services team.
Registering with Accessible Learning Services is simple and we've broken it down into easy to follow steps. If this is a service you require, you can start by registering with Accessible Learning Services.
We provide accessible orientation events. Please remember to connect with our team if you plan on attending orientation events, so we can ensure the right supports are available during the events. To start the process, please email the Student Life team at orientation@georgebrown.ca now.
For additional supports before you start, ask about the Great Beginnings for Students with Disabilities workshops. This program has been put together to help students and their supporters navigate college life and the supports offered when studying with a disability.
Take me to the Academic Orientation page 
Check out these videos we’ve put together specifically to help students with disabilities get a jump start on their education and learn how to get the most out of the college experience! Make sure you’ve registered with the Accessible Learning Services team so they can ensure you have the supports you need on your academic journey!
Email letstalk@georgebrown.ca for more information.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.