
Better Jobs Ontario has replaced the Second Career program. The program now offers increased eligibility for the unemployed and underemployed as well as those on social assistance, gig workers, youth and newcomers to Ontario. Please visit georgebrown.ca/better for more information. 
George Brown College students who are sponsored under Better Jobs Ontario will receive ongoing support throughout their studies. The Community Partnerships Office will provide students with programs and services as well as regular updates received from the Ministry of Labour, Training and Skills Development (MLTSD). 
Download New Student Checklist (PDF)
Send Us Your Feedback
For students starting in September 2022, the deadline is July 16, 2022. Please bring your signed contract to the Student Service Centre of either the St James campus or Casa Loma campus.
It is essential that Better Jobs Ontario students understand the various College departments and institutions that are working together to administer and coordinate the Better Jobs Ontario program. It is the student’s responsibility to proactively seek help or ask questions with regards to the information they need from the relevant office or institution.
As a Better Jobs Ontario student, it is important to identify reliable sources of information for multiple aspects of your educational experience, because both the College and MLTSD systems are large and no one department will hold all subject matter expertise. Misinformation can delay Better Jobs Ontario processes or cause funding problems.
Don’t be afraid to seek advice or to ask questions. Keep seeking clarification if your questions have not been fully addressed and always follow up on administrative processes and transactions. It is important for all students, but especially Better Jobs Ontario funded students, to take control of their education. If you are having communication challenges with staff, ask to speak to a manager or other staff member.
Need to meet with someone to discuss an issue related to Better Jobs Ontario? Call or make an appointment with the Better Jobs Ontario Program Officer.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.