
Black Futures stands as an innovative frontline force for George Brown College's Black community. Our work is aimed at eradicating anti-Black racism, championing transformation, and fostering an inclusive environment for Black students, staff, faculty and allies within GBC.
Our mission is to nurture and empower the Black community at GBC with intentional connections, relationships and support systems. We seek to eradicate the systemic barriers that have long harmed Black individuals in higher education settings. We do this by establishing and sustaining Black-centric programs, community spaces, initiatives and tools while always drawing upon the diverse intersectional richness within our community and embracing the expansive identity of Blackness. Black Futures directly supports and contributes to GBC's Strategy 2026, Anti-Racism Action Plan, and the Scarborough Charter. 
Black Futures will implement our activities through a phased approach, operating across two key focus areas. The first is dedicated to academic research and programming, while the second centres on empowering the community through initiatives specifically designed to promote Black flourishing. 
Throughout 2024 Black Futures Month, we will highlight the importance of Black history, specifically Canadian Black history.  
"Join us in commemorating Black Futures Month as we honour and celebrate the tireless efforts and dedication of Black scholars, activists, and individuals who paved the way for Black liberation," said Mary Ola, Senior Manager, Black Futures. "Acknowledging the significance of Canadian Black history is pivotal for situating ourselves in the ongoing struggle for freedom." 
This year, we are proud to host renowned Canadian artist, activist, and academic d'bi young anitafrika, University of Guelph Chancellor and former Ontario cabinet minister and MPP Dr. Mary Anne Chambers, and Canadian business leader, philanthropist and Dragon's Den investor Wes Hall for events. 
Land Acknowledgements from the Black Perspectivewith d’bi.young anitafrikaMonday, February 5Noon - 2 p.m.
Location and registration details are coming soon!
Embark on a profound exploration with us as we delve into the nuanced layers of land acknowledgments through the lens of Black Canadians. Our goal is to deepen the understanding of the intersections between land acknowledgments and Black Canadians, emphasizing the importance of personal identity in the context of delivering a land acknowledgment.
Image by Ocean Morisset
BLK: An Origin StoryEvery Friday in February (2, 9, 16 and 23)Noon
Zoom registration details are coming soon!
BLK: An Origin Story is a four-part doc series that looks beyond the Underground Railroad to explore the untold stories of Black Canadians from the 1600s to the present. These four hours aim to show that Black history is Canadian history. Join us every Friday in February (Feb 2, 9, 16 and 23) to watch the series and discuss the contributions.
 
 
Wes Hall Q&A & book launch Thursday, February 8, 20243:30 - 5 p.m.Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences51 Dockside Dr., 2nd-floor auditorium
Register on Eventbrite.
George Brown College's Alumni Relations Office invites you to a special event as part of Black Futures Month. Join us for a fireside chat with alum, author, and entrepreneur Wes Hall. We will discuss how he overcame a challenging childhood and rose from a law firm mailroom to become a Bay Street leader and founder of the BlackNorth Initiative, and the newest and first Black Dragon in the Dragon's Den.
Join us and receive a free copy of Hall's memoir No Bootstraps When You're Barefoot. 
 
Brighter Futures, featuring Dr. Mary Anne ChambersWednesday, February 2111:30 a.m. - 1 p.m. Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences,Waterfront Campus, 51 Dockside Dr., 2nd-floor auditorium
Registration details are coming soon!
Join us for an exceptional Black Futures Month keynote featuring Dr. Mary Anne Chambers. Dr. Chambers is a distinguished figure with a remarkable journey who continues to make impactful contributions to various sectors. She is the 10th Chancellor of the University of Guelph, a former Scotiabank Senior Vice-President and former Ontario Minister of Training, Colleges and Universities, and Minister of Children and Youth Services.
 
Roots & RecipesThursday, February 2211 a.m. - 1 p.m.Centre for Hospitality & Culinary Arts300 Adelaide St. E., atrium
Registration details coming soon!
Embark on a culinary odyssey at our cultural food exhibit, where diverse flavours and traditions come together to create a rich and immersive experience.
 
Download Background
Download Background
Asha leads the Black Student Success Network (BSSN), which strives to build community for Black students at George Brown College.
The Computer Programming and Analysis grad has risen through the ranks at Loblaw Digital and in 2019 was named one of Canada's top young developers. She's using her success to help others.
The GBC alum builds paths to success in the trades for youth from diverse communities.
Chironda is a Practical Nursing graduate and a leader in the field of infection prevention and control.
The second-year Fashion Techniques and Design student created a clothing line for Black women.
Marlon Greene is an assistant coach for George Brown's men's basketball team. "What we're doing right now is historic," he says. The team is headed to the OCAA championships on March 2-4, 2023.
The 2018 Graphic Design program grad is the founder and creative director of UNSGND, a female-powered creative agency with an expanding client base. She created a female-centred business after noticing male-dominated board rooms during her college work placements.  
Vivene Roberts never stops moving to ensure the needs of marginalized children and youth in foster care are being met. The 1993 Child and Youth Care grad runs a foster care agency, recently opened a foster care group home, and continually creates innovative new programming and services.
The 2022-23 captain of the varsity women's soccer team has impressive stats (OCAA All-Star x2), but it's her fellow players' success and their positive team dynamic she wants to celebrate.
The 2021 Social Service Worker program grad is a supportive housing worker, helping people with addictions and mental health challenges.
Financial services executive, chef and accessible education advocate Ray Williams is passionate about creating opportunities for others.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.