
On June 29th, 2022, representatives from Building Opportunities for Life Today (BOLT), George Brown College, and the George Brown College Foundation, alongside students and alumni, gathered to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the George Brown College-BOLT partnership. During the celebration, BOLT presented the generous annual gift of $21,000 for the 2022-2023 academic year, which will support seven (7) deserving Centre for Construction and Engineering Technologies (CCET) students at the College. 
Founded by Leo & Sandra DelZotto, BOLT was launched in 2009 and established as a Charitable Foundation in 2013 to help under-resourced youth 17-29 years old in the GTA access education, training and employment opportunities in the construction industry. Tridel is Canada’s largest condo developer and BOLT’s Principal & Founding Sponsor.
The BOLT Foundation has been supporting George Brown College students through scholarships since 2011-12 and remains committed to providing opportunities for students to pursue their construction education and career goals. Throughout the 10-year partnership, BOLT has assisted students through more than 280 scholarships and inspired a new generation of construction and skilled trades professionals. 
BOLT and the CCET also co-host the “Day of Discovery”, an immersive experience for youth to learn about the different construction stages, meet construction professionals, and understand the realities of working on site.
“BOLT is proud to support GBC students passionate about a career in the construction industry by easing the financial barriers that prevent them from reaching their education goals. Through our scholarships, job shadowing, mentorship, and employment connections, we are setting up the next generation of industry professionals for success,” said Raly Chakarova, Executive Director of the BOLT Foundation.
“BOLT’s support of the College is to be lauded. BOLT has consistently shown its thought-leadership and commitment to future-proofing the construction and skilled trades sector. Over the last decade, and under the unerring guidance of Leo DelZotto, BOLT has built a robust partnership with George Brown College that has wrought positive, tangible outcomes for numerous CCET students.” Dr. Cindy Gouveia, Vice President, Office of Advancement, George Brown College and President of the George Brown College Foundation stated. 
George Brown College President, Dr. Gervan Fearon added, “The unwavering commitment from BOLT over the past ten years has created remarkable opportunities for our students to pursue careers in the construction and engineering fields. We are incredibly grateful for the longstanding partnership with BOLT, and we thank them for their generosity year after year”.  
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.