
Bookstores can be found at each of our campuses and they sell a lot more than textbooks. They also carry supplies and materials you’ll need for your program. These include culinary, hospitality, nursing and dental uniforms, scrubs and shoes, and materials for culinary, fashion, jewellery, and arts and design programs, among others. And it’s a go-to place for your basic class needs like stationary, pens, gum, travel coffee mugs, backpacks and GBC hoodies and T-shirts. Check the bookstore website for information on prices and stock.
Location: 200 King St. E., building A, main floor
IN Store is a retail venture where George Brown students, alumni, and faculty develop products for sale and learn about the intersection between design and entrepreneurship. IN Store provides employment opportunities for students where they develop new skills under the mentorship of experienced faculty and designers. Our vision is to create high quality, locally produced, well designed products and explore customized designs with our clients.
Location: 3 Jarvis St., School of Design building, main floor
The Computer Store is owned and operated by George Brown College. It offers computer repair service and sells computer and tech solutions at educational prices!
Location: 200 King St. E., building A, main floor
The college’s Public Safety and Security Division provides a range of services including emergency response, first aid and CPR, lost and found articles and building access control.
Our Fitness Centres offer a range of fitness options that cater to a variety of student needs including cardio, resistance and free weight training. Equipment includes but is not limited to treadmills, ellipticals, exercise bikes, stair climbers, rowing machines, universal weight stations, chest and leg press, olympic bars, free weight racks and benches, and more. All fitness and recreation programs will be operating only out of our Casa Loma Athletic Centre for Fall 2022. Our St James Campus location will remain closed due to ongoing maintenance and repairs. We apologize for any inconvenience.
George Brown has lockers across its campuses for students to store their textbooks, supplies, and personal items when on campus. Lockers are allocated by program so they should be near where your classes are. Log in through STU-VIEW to get started.
Wondering what your food options are? There are a lot of affordable and tasty options at each of our campuses.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.