
This tool can help you discover career options, the right programs to take, and salary expectations for the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). Whether you know what career you want or are still thinking about it, Career Coach is a great starting point. 
Career Coach data comes from EMSI, a third-party vendor, and is based on Statistics Canada sources. Job postings also come from EMSI where they are pulled from Indeed.com.
By taking a career assessment quiz, you can learn about careers that suit your interests. There are two options: a six-question quick start or a more detailed 60-question assessment. Once you’ve completed the quiz, you will see your top career matches.*
It’s a great feeling knowing what career you want to have. It’s even better when you understand what types of jobs are available and what average salaries are in the GTA. Use the Browse Career option to find careers based on the industry you’re interested in.
Through Career Coach, you can search George Brown College programs that interest you, and the results will show you what career options may be available to you after you complete a specific program.
Another great aspect of Career Coach is the resume builder. Once you know the type of career you want, a strong resume can help you reach your goals. Your resume document can be easily edited and downloaded at any time.
Connect with our Entry Advising team for more information.
Disclaimer
George Brown College offers a variety of programs with many career pathways. Employment projections are based on currently available information, but they may change over time (e.g. some careers are expected to have high retirement rates in the next few years, which may change the number of jobs available). All labour market data shown here are provided by EMSI, a third-party provider, based on Statistics Canada sources and updated twice a year. Job postings are also provided by EMSI, pulled from Indeed.com and updated every 24 hours. Although we believe the information to be accurate, George Brown makes no guarantees as to the timeliness, accuracy, reliability or completeness of this data.
*Please note that the Career Assessment isn't a verified assessment and should be used for exploration purposes only.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.