
Opened in 1974 to provide care for preschool children under the name of “The Learning Centre”, Casa Loma was George Brown College’s premier Lab School. In 1993, funding was made available from Ontario Works and the current centre was built at our Casa Loma campus, and re-named the Casa Loma Child Care Centre. A.J. Diamond and Schmidt were the architects. It opened its’ doors to families in September 1994. Located on campus, Casa Loma works in partnership with a number of other college departments such as Dental, Toronto Metropolitan University Nursing, Lifestyle and Fitness Management.
Our centre serves as a model lab school for the diploma and degree programs in the School of Early Childhood, and provides a training ground where college students are supported in developing their skills in working with children and families as they complete the hands on component of their academic program.
Manager: Debbie WilsonEmail: dwilson@georgebrown.ca
Centre Phone number: 416-415-5000, ext. 4616Address: 160 Kendal Avenue, Toronto ON, M5R 1M3Age groups accommodated: 6 weeks to 5 yearsHours of operation: 8 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.Food: Catered by "Yummy Catering"
The Childcare centres in the School of Early childhood have applied for and have been approved for the CWELCC program.
All of our lab schools will follow the guidelines from Toronto Children’s Services in the implementation of the CWELCC plan. As such, the fees are inclusive of all of our services. Therefore, we do not charge any additional fees for extracurricular activities or transportation, etc.
Children under the age of 6 are eligible for the fee reduction.
To join our waitlist, please complete this form. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.