
Members of the George Brown College community are achieving amazing things in academics, athletics, industry competitions, community involvement and more.  
And the college is often recognized for its contributions to making Toronto a better place to live and work.  
Our partnerships with employers and with community and industry organizations give students opportunities to develop their skills in real-world settings, preparing them to reach their goals in school and in the workforce. Learn more about Experiential Learning at George Brown College. 
Fashion Management student Hazel Ycasiano wins 2 awards in the 2023 Fashion Scholarship Fund (FSF) case study competition.
Go Huskies! The badminton mixed doubles team of Sarthak Arora and Monique Lee won gold at the 2023 Ontario championship and silver at the nationals. 
Chef David Wolfman wins a 2022 Indspire Award in the Arts category. 
The Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business honours Fashion Techniques & Design graduate Lesley Hampton with its 2023 Young Entrepreneur Award.
We’re woven into the fabric of Toronto and we’re proud to contribute to the economic growth of the city and the province of Ontario. 
Limberlost Place wins the Excellence in Design Innovation Award at the 2022 Waterfront Design Review Panel Awards hosted by Waterfront Toronto.
For the seventh straight year, George Brown College is named one of Greater Toronto’s Top Employers (2023). 
George Brown College is ranked among the top 10 research colleges in Canada for 2022 by Research Infosource. 
Centre for Arts, Design and Information Technology
Fashion Management student Hazel Ycasiano won two awards in the Fashion Scholarship Fund (FSF) case study challenge, a $7,500 US scholarship and a $10,000 US Neiman Marcus Group x FSF Scholarship. She was invited to the 2023 FSF Awards Gala in New York City, attended by American Vogue Editor-in-Chief Anna Wintour.
Centre for Business
The team of postgrad human resources students, including Melissa Burton, Christina Theocharidis, Claire Kearns, Melanie Facchini, and Aaron Kuo, placed third at the 2023 HRPA Student Case Competition. 
Badminton  
Mixed doubles pair Sarthak Arora and Monique Lee won OCAA gold with an undefeated 7-0 record, securing their spot at the CCAA National Championship.  On the national stage, the pair went undefeated in the round robin on way to a CCAA silver medal and helped Team Ontario claim the team gold. 
Men’s basketball 
The Huskies men’s basketball team won silver at the Ontario College Athletic Association (OCAA) finals and earned a spot to compete at the nationals for the third time in the last six seasons. 
Fashion Techniques and Design graduate Lesley Hampton is the recipient of the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business 2023 Young Entrepreneur Award. 
George Brown College was named one of Greater Toronto’s Top Employers (2023). 
Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning program students Owen Buckley and Ryan Sutherland won gold and silver respectively at a student heating systems competition at the Canadian Mechanical and Plumbing Exposition. 
A team of students from the Analytics for Business Decision-Making program won the 2022 SAS Safe Roads competition. 
Tanvir Singh Ahuja and Melric Rego were on the team of four that won Global Goals Jam Canada 2022, March 18-20. The competition challenges students, entrepreneurs and changemakers to develop solutions based on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), also known as Global Goals, as outlined by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). 
Chef David Wolfman, a longtime instructor at the Centre for Hospitality and Culinary Arts, won a 2022 Indspire Award in the Arts category.
George Brown teams won the Top Overall Solution and Most Innovative Solution honours at the health care solutions hackathon, Glackathon 2021. 
Top UHN Solution and Top Overall Solution  6ix Health (All students from the Health Informatics program)  
Most Innovative Solution   JARS (3 of 4 members George Brown students)  
The Huskies men’s soccer team won silver at the OCAA provincial championships and advanced to the nationals. The team's 2021 effort ended with a loss to Nomades de Montmorency in the bronze semifinals.  
Chef School graduate DeAille Tam was named Asia’s Top Female Chef, 2021. 
Faculty member Michael John Long received the 2021 Award of Excellence for Outstanding Post-Secondary Educator from the Canadian Network for Environmental Education and Communication for his work with the student-led Sustainability Squad. 
Four students from the School of Fashion Studies won scholarships from the Manhattan-based YMA Fashion Scholarship Fund (FSF).
Silvia Canovas Closa, Jillian Siu and Madeline Soubry each won US$5,000 scholarships and Barbara De Souza Pinheiro Nobre took home a $7,500 award. They travelled to New York City to attend a gala awards celebration in January. 
For the second time in three years, a team of George Brown College students won the Chartered Institute of Building’s Global Student Challenge. 
Jonathan Isenegger, Philip Jager, Kristopher Turnbull-Poulin, and Maxim Sokolicz, together known as Team DGC Toronto, beat out students from Australia, China, Indonesia and Scotland. 
George Brown students and graduates earned top-three finishes in each of the categories at the 2020 Ubisoft Toronto Next Challenge. 
George Brown College is named one of Greater Toronto’s Top Employers.
The design for our mass-timber building at Waterfront Campus, The Arbour, continues to win awards, including:
Five students from our School of Fashion and Jewellery won US$5,000 YMA Fashion Scholarship Fund awards based on their strong academic performance and on case studies they developed and presented.
The 2019 YMA FSF award winners are:
George Brown College students dominated at the Construction Institute of Canada’s 2019 Simulated Student Bid competition, sweeping three of the four categories.
Game Art student Jacob Lafortune won first place in the animation category in the Ubisoft NEXT competition in May.
Prema Chandran, Erica Valentine and Matthew Liu, all students from the School of Accounting and Finance, won the 2019 CIFP (Canadian Institute of Financial Planners) National Financial Planning Case Competition on June 3, 2019.
Refrigeration student Connor Lexovsky won a silver medal at the Skills Canada National Competition in Halifax in May.
George Brown College teams took home OCAA (Ontario Collegiate Athletics Association) championships in:
Three George Brown athletes— Anh Hoang and the mixed doubles pair Mike Ra and Angeline Alviar— took home silver medals at the Canadian Collegiate Athletic Association (CCAA) badminton nationals.
-Rethinking the Future, Architecture, Construction and Design Award — Institutional Concept-2018 – Canadian Architect Award of Excellence
Our Human Resources diploma programs at the Centre for Business won a 2018 Canadian HR Reporter Readers' Choice Award.
For the first time in George Brown College history, both our women’s and men’s badminton teams won the provincial titles. They followed that up with a best-ever performance at the nationals, earning an incredible four medals, one in each discipline George Brown had a team entered.
Read more at athletics.georgebrown.ca.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.