
The Centre for Business has created its Strategic Plan based on the College’s articulated vision, mission, values, and plan. By creating this alignment, the Centre contributes directly to the vision and future of the  College.
The Centre for Business’ Strategic Plan covers the three-year period 2021-24. It allows us to leverage our strengths, tap into the resource base of the College and Division, and reposition the Centre by developing a competitive advantage over other PSEs. The key overarching goal of the Strategic Plan is to create a first-rate teaching and learning experience for our students. This is complemented by investing in developing the Centre’s human resource capacity and capabilities.
The implementation, execution and monitoring of the plan will be expressed through annual Business Plans.
To be recognized as a leader in applied business education supporting lifelong learners in achieving their educational and professional aspirations.
Our business values embrace People, Pedagogy and Progressiveness (3Ps) in preparing workplace ready business professionals.  Within each of these three (3) areas, the CfB advocates for, and practices, equity, diversity, and inclusivity, in teaching and learning, and in employee relations.
People – Using Equity, Diversity and Inclusion as a transformational guide, build communities of practice to leverage the expertise of academics and staff who have exemplary industry and professional experience.
Pedagogy – Deliver differentiated learning experiences for development of students’ real-world competencies, such as interdisciplinary problem-solving, experiential learning, digital and analytical thinking.  These enable students to make connections across disciplines to solve problems and provide them with lifelong learning tools that are needed over their careers and ensure employability.
Progressiveness – Maintain a relentless focus on student experience and the pursuit of innovation to maximize learning outcomes for all learners and increase time to market and entrepreneurial approaches to meet the changing needs of industry.
Graduates of the Centre for Business are workplace ready and highly regarded business professionals.
 
The CfB Roadmap outlines 4 major business plan elements:
Deliver learning experiences that prepare learners for future and global skills.
Academic Planning in which:
Build interconnected partnerships with other post-secondary institutions, industry, and community.
Build a resilient CfB community that is adaptable, entrepreneurial, and diverse. Strengthen pedagogical expertise, delivery capacity and capabilities. In so doing, we raise the standard of the learner experience and expand the variety of delivery models.
Focus on our fundamentals to help anticipate, absorb, and manage change.
Our business values advocate for, and practice equity, diversity and inclusivity in teaching and learning, and in employee relations. Our priorities include:
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.