
A Global School Shaping Global Careers. Do What You Love!
Careers in hospitality management and culinary arts are always exciting and evolving. If you love creating memorable experiences and succeed under pressure, then you're an excellent fit for this industry.
We offer 21 Certificate, diploma, degree and postgraduate programs, including, new this year, a four year Honours Bachelor of Food Studies Degree, the first of its kind in Canada, and the first four-year Culinary Management Honours Bachelor Degree.
The George Brown College Centre for Hospitality and Culinary Arts is set in downtown Toronto - the largest, most vibrant hospitality city in Canada, and located just steps away from the city's top restaurants, bars, hotels and event venues.
You'll be trained by professors who work in the industry; they will teach you the essential skills required to succeed and help you build a network of industry professionals. Gain real-world experience in our fully functioning restaurant, The Chefs' House, where you will have the chance to interact with customers in real life work situations.
Visit George Brown College by signing up for one of our Open House Discovery Days. You’ll learn all about our programs and how to secure financial aid. Open House Discovery Days take place at 300 Adelaide St. East. Space is limited!
REGISTER FOR OPEN HOUSE
The Centre for Hospitality and Culinary Arts Ambassador Program is a volunteer program where you have the opportunity to help your college community at events dedicated to both industry and students! These events provide you with the chance to connect with fellow classmates and network with industry professionals! 
Learn more
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.