
Gain real-world experience in downtown Toronto
Pursue your passion in the business and financial capital of Canada. Our downtown location near Toronto's business hub gives you access to top employers for field education and networking opportunities.
The Centre for Business offers 33 diploma, degree, and postgraduate programs at our four schools as well as a pre-Business program for students looking to strengthen their academics and general knowledge of business fields.
The online postgraduate certificates programs offer working professionals the flexibility of a fully online business program scheduled in the evening and on weekends.  Study online and develop professional skills in a year or less. Some programs include a work term.
Learn more about online programs
of programs include experiential learning or work experience
industry relationships and growing
from Toronto’s Financial District
The Centre for Business holds monthly information sessions (like a mini-open house) for prospective students to ask questions and learn more about our programs and facilities.
Attend an info session
George Brown College's Centre for Business programs has earned international recognition from the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP). Centre for Business diplomas, advanced diplomas, and degree programs, 14 in total, have been accredited globally at our Schools of Accounting & Finance, HR, Management, and Marketing. George Brown is now one of only two colleges in Ontario to have earned ACBSP accreditation. 
* Key Performance Indicators, Colleges Ontario, 2019
Check out classrooms and consulting labs at the Centre for Business on our Virtual Tour.
Take a Virtual Tour
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.