
Noella Milne was appointed the Chancellor of George Brown College in May 2019. She is the second person to hold the post of George Brown College Chancellor. Her appointment succeeds Sally Horsfall Eaton, now George Brown’s Chancellor Emeritus.
The Chancellor’s Circle celebrates the College’s most generous donors. Donors are eligible to join the Chancellor’s Circle if they have gifted $1,000 or more to the Chancellor’s Circle over the course of a year. Chancellor’s Circle donors firmly believe in our mission and possess both the foresight and capacity to provide powerful annual support to make it a reality. 
Members of the Chancellor’s Circle play an essential role in supporting George Brown College. Your support fuels our College’s excellence in academics, research, and community service. Donors can choose the direction of their gift and donations can be made monthly or as an annual gift. Whether you support an academic program, scholarships or another area of need, 100% of your donation will help support our students.
In addition to making a difference in so many of the day-to-day successes of George Brown College, Chancellor’s Circle donors enjoy special courtesies, including invitations to exclusive networking events, and special communications throughout the year.
If you would like to consider joining the Chancellor’s Circle, please donate.
Please don't hesitate to get in touch by contacting:
Gabriella GoutamDevelopment Officer, Annual GivingGeorge Brown College FoundationPhone: 416-415-5000 x3289Fax: 416-415-5011Email: gabriella.goutam@georgebrown.ca 
Now an accomplished real estate lawyer, Noella came to Canada from Mumbai, India, alone at age 17. Working days and taking classes at nights to earn a college diploma then a university degree, her hard work would lead her to law school and ultimately senior partner at Borden, Ladner Gervais (BLG). Throughout her career she has been a champion for youth and an active volunteer and mentor.
Noella has a 15-year connection with George Brown College, serving consecutive terms on its Board of Governors from 2003-2009 and on the George Brown College Foundation Board of Directors from 2010 to 2018. She completed her term as Chair of the Foundation Board in 2018. She has also been honoured by the Women's Executive Network (WXN) as one of Canada's Top 100 Most Powerful Women, is a recipient of the YWCA Women of Distinction award, received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Children’s Aid Foundation and an Arbor Award from the University of Toronto.
She volunteers as a member of the Order of Ontario Advisory Council, as well as on the Advisory Board of the Children’s Aid Foundation, was a former President and Honorary Life Director of the Canadian Club, is an Immediate Past Chair of UNICEF Canada and a past member of the Board of Directors for St. Michael’s Hospital, the Children’s Aid Society of Toronto and the Ontario Science Centre among others. She also continues to mentor young lawyers and women through WXN and the Children’s Aid Society.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.