
Join the largest Culinary School in Canada. Become the next great Chef!
George Brown College offers a blend of theoretical and experiential education, students gain the skills and knowledge to achieve a successful career in today’s culinary and food industry. Our culinary learning environments and experiential training locations are best-in-class. We also offer extensive externship and recruitment opportunities and a Dean’s recognition program to help our students grow their skills in real world settings.
Our commitment to being one of Canada’s best culinary schools has led to the launch of our four-year Honours Bachelor of Food Studies Degree and our four-year Culinary Management Honours Bachelor Degree. These programs are the first of their kind in Canada.
You’ll join over four decades of impressive alumni. We’re proud to count the likes of Mark McEwan, Jamie Kennedy, Bonnie Stern, Roger Mooking, and several internationally recognized chefs among our graduates. Located in the heart of downtown Toronto, George Brown puts you at the centre of the culinary industry in Canada.

The Centre for Hospitality and Culinary Arts is proud to be LEAF Certified through our positive efforts to become an environmentally-friendly and sustainable foodservice establishment.
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Contact one of our recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by booking a virtual meeting or by submitting an inquiry.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.