Our Classical Yoga Teacher Program has been designed for those who wish to teach classical yoga to the community at large. Yoga is a popular way to maintain physical, mental, and spiritual well-being because it helps those who practise it deal with life's challenges in a balanced way. Learn the skills and techniques you need to develop an awareness of both mind and body. Explore postures, breath awareness (pranayamas), meditation, anatomy and physiology, yoga history, yoga philosophy, Patanjali's yoga aphorisms (sutras), and teaching methodologies.
You can attend a Classical Yoga Teacher information session for more details.
Career options typically include yoga teacher positions in such settings as yoga studios, fitness centres, schools, hospitals, public institutions, and private organizations/corporations.
You will have the most success in this program if you already have several years of experience practising yoga before you start taking the required courses.
You must achieve a grade of C- (60%) or better in each required course to be able to progress to the next course, and you must complete all the course requirements within one academic year (fall term through spring term). Once you have completed all the requirements of this program, you can request to receive a certificate of completion using the department contact information on this web page.
Modules must be completed in the order shown. Courses must be completed in the term shown.
Modules must be completed in the order shown. Courses must be completed in the term shown.
Modules must be completed in the order shown. Courses must be completed in the term shown.
You must attend 100% of the classes scheduled for each course as this program involves a significant skills development component that can only be acquired through active participation and attendance.
George Brown College is located on the traditional territory of the Mississaugas of the Credit First Nation and other Indigenous peoples who have lived here over time. We are grateful to share this land as treaty people who learn, work and live in the community with each other.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment on the college-wide website.
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.