Continuing Education courses involving clinical placement hours have medical and other requirements that you must meet before you can be placed. George Brown College requires students in these courses to show they meet these requirements by completing a mandatory program-specific pre-placement health form and having that form (and all required documents) reviewed and validated through Placement Pass by ParaMed. This process is managed through our Placement Pass by ParaMed portal. If you have any questions regarding your health form requirements or would like to book an appointment to visit the clinical pre-placement main office, contact  Suzette Martinuzzi, Clinical Pre-placement Co-ordinator.
Book an appointment with your doctor/walk-in clinic. Bring your health form to your appointment, and advise your doctor to sign and stamp your health form documents upon completion of all medical requirements. Read the detailed instructions on the Clinical Pre-placement Health Form document (downloadable files are located in the previous section) for your course. All costs and service fees are your responsibility.
Some sectors continue to require proof of COVID-19 vaccination records from our students in clinical practice course, such as in hospitals, long-term care facilities, childcare centres, and other health care or community-based settings. These sectors, including learning environments at George Brown College, continue to follow public health, regulatory standards and best practices. For up-to-date information, refer to the college-wide COVID-19 Vaccination Policy and your program specific Clinical Pre-placement Health Form documents (downloadable files are located in the previous section).
You must renew your Basic Life Support (BLS) Certificate every year.
You must complete your Basic Life Support (BLS) Certificate requirements through one of the  providers approved by Workplace Safety and Insurance Board (WSIB) Ontario. All costs and service fees are your responsibility.
You must renew your Mask Test Fit Certificate every two years.
You must be tested for an appropriate qualitative mask (respirator). You can book your mask fit test at Peak Excellence Centre for Continuing Education or MaskFit Plus or you can arrange one through your workplace or at any third-party company available in your area. Make sure that you get fitted for the 3M N95 model as it is widely used and supplied by most of our placement agency partners (such as hospitals, long-term care facilities, and other health care setting). Your mask fit test certificate card must clearly indicate the issue and expiry dates, mask model, type, and size and must be valid for two years. All costs and service fees are your responsibility.
You must renew your vulnerable sector check (VSC) every year.
It is your responsibility to ensure that you receive your vulnerable sector check result prior to the submission deadline. If you do not have a clear vulnerable sector check (VSC) record with your submission, you will be excluded from placement, which may jeopardize your academic status in the program. It is recommended you act as soon as possible since it may take 8 to 12 weeks to process your application form and for your results to arrive in the mail. Most regional police services are not providing in-person submissions or expedited services due to COVID-19 restrictions. All costs and service fees are your responsibility.
If you need to apply for your VSC and you currently reside in the Toronto region with a postal code that starts with the letter M, follow these steps:
Once your submission has been finalized, Toronto Police Service will send you an email notification indicating when you will receive your VSC results to your email account. Processing times typically take 7 to 10 business days from the date the application is received but may take longer due to volume of requests and/or time of year.
If you live in another region or province, check your specific regional police services website (for example, Durham, Halton, Hamilton, Peel, OPP, South Simcoe, York) and read their instructions carefully to learn about their requirements and the process for obtaining their application form. If you need a volunteer letter from the college in order to be eligible for the student fee, contact Suzette Martinuzzi, Clinical Pre-placement Co-ordinator. It could take up to 6 weeks for the police service to process your vulnerable sector check (VSC) application.
If your course is being hosted on Brightspace, visit the college-wide Student Brightspace Support web page for details.
You must ensure that you know how to access your student account and your George Brown College email address.
Once you have acquired all the required documents, you must sign-up for a ParaMed Placement Pass portal account and upload all your documents by the given deadline.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the pre-placement process (including those related to the Placement Pass by ParaMed portal) are your responsibility and must be paid by you. The following table lists the current estimated costs involved in completing your Placement Pass health form. This list is for reference only. This may not constitute the extent of fees encountered and (for those costs outside of ParaMed) are estimates only. Fees may vary from what is listed here and are subject to change without notice.
If you have any questions or would like to book an appointment to visit the clinical pre-placement main office, contact Suzette Martinuzzi, Clinical Pre-placement Co-ordinator.
George Brown College is located on the traditional territory of the Mississaugas of the Credit First Nation and other Indigenous peoples who have lived here over time. We are grateful to share this land as treaty people who learn, work and live in the community with each other.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment on the college-wide website.
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.