
Clubs at GBC are a great way to bring back face-to-face contact in areas of cultural interest, personal interests, and social movements. This is your chance to interact with a wide variety of people, expand your skillset, or find a new interest. Student clubs promote campus life and are inclusive and open to all. Join a club today.
Russ Adade, Clubs Coordinatorclubs@sagbc.caSt. James Campus, 200 King St. E., room 147
This is the official clubs list recognized by the Student Association and George Brown College. Please note that this list is always being updated as clubs start at all times during the year. Keep visiting for updates! clubs@sagbc.ca. 
Club Name
Description
Email
Architectural Studies Collective
The Architectural Studies Collective encourages skill and knowledge building through participation in events hosted by the club or hosted externally. This can include, but not limited to: sketch walks, design competitions, talks with industry professionals and site visits.
julia.gregoire@georgebrown.ca  
Canadian Nursing Student Association
CNSA is a communication link among nursing students across Canada. CNSA advocates on behalf of the nursing students at George Brown College. They conduct a series of workshops, speaking engagements, and activations on campus. 
Daanyal.Nicholas@georgebrown.ca 
gbrown@cnsa.ca 
Decentralized Minds Club
The purpose of the club is to cultivate a comprehensive understanding and profound knowledge of blockchain technology among students. TeTheh club is dedicated to being a beacon for blockchain exploration, providing resources, opportunities and a dynamic community for students eager to delve into the world of blockchain. 
athikafatima@georgebrown.ca 
Enactus
Enactus seeks to help our community to achieve economic and social success by empowering students with field education opportunities through partnership and learning innovations.
wrose@georgebrown.ca 
enactus@georgebrown.ca 
GBC Advocates for Early Childhood Education 
The mission of the Club is to Foster awareness of Early Childhood Educator/Early Childhood Education and Child Care issues and create student advocates who are passionate and actively engaged in critical thinking and critical action towards addressing and responding to these issues.
lish.francoeur@georgebrown.ca 
Front Of House Operations 
Our purpose for this club is to organize events at the GBC that will be fun, educational, and memorable for the students of George brown college.
shrutiarora2246@gmail.com 
GBC Analytics Club
Ready to embark on a journey of discovery, innovation, and camaraderie, while unlocking the potential of data analytics to unleash a future shaped by data-driven excellence? Then join the GBC Analytics Club. We have regular speaker series, hackathons and competitions, annual conferences, networking events, and an exciting analytics bootcamp.
ahmademadaddinmuhyedin.muhyedin@georgebrown.ca 
GBC Computer Science Club
The GBCCSC is a club designed to foster an interest and love for all facets of Computer Science. Our meetings will include demonstrations of recent projects that have been written by members, ideas for upcoming projects which members may want to take part in, and upcoming events or competitions. We aim to have a meeting each week, along with potential outings to networking events or in house events created by the executive members.
owen.beattie@georgebrown.ca 
GBC Marketing Association
To provide a forum for George Brown marketing students to meet fellow students with an interest in marketing, to participate in professional development opportunities within the college and the marketing industry, and apply their marketing skills promoting the association’s events. Examples of work that will support the association’s purpose include preparing and updating the association’s marketing plan, recruiting members, implementing marketing events, and conducting post analyses.
Laurence.Boucher@georgebrown.ca 
GBC Sustainability Squad 
This club aims to bridge the gap between sustainability and student experience by implementing projects that benefit students and the environment. A student-led sustainability club will be held at George Brown College to reach its sustainability goals while engaging the students in a process, and this will imbed sustainable practices into campus culture while empowering students through increased environmental literacy.
Club Name
Description
Email 
Indian Cultural Association
The Association will connect with every international and domestic student through cultural programming and events that will allow students and GBC community members to explore cultural activities.
shrutika.sutar@georgebrown.ca 
Iranian Student Club
The Iranian student club is a place for Iranians to share their rich heritage and culture with others. The Iranian students club is a safe place for Iranians to be heard and express themselves. We would love to share everything about Iran and the Persian people with you.
Iranianstudentclubgbc@gmail.com 
sohrab.mottaghimahmoudi@georgebrown.ca 
Living Water Fellowship 
Setting up a healthy and prayerful fellowship environment for brothers & sisters to grow: 
- To have room for students share with one another
- To have chance for students to study and discuss about Bible
- To provide opportunity better guide them the experience of living in Canada
dcq0105@gmail.com 
Muslim Student Association
The goal of the Muslim Student Association is to create an encouraging and inclusive environment for the Muslim population at George Brown. Our mission is to serve the needs of these students on and off-campus. The Aim and Purpose of MSA is to serve and represent the needs of Muslims on and off-campus. This MSA will work towards integrating its values into George Brown’s community.
Asim.Afsar@GeorgeBrown.ca 
Job Search Club
The club's primary goal would be to support students in their journey towards securing meaningful employment and making informed career choices.
deep.gajjar@georgebrown.ca 
Club Name
Description
Email 
GBC Advocates for Early Childhood Education 
The mission of the Club is to Foster awareness of Early Childhood Educator/Early Childhood Education and Child Care issues and create student advocates who are passionate and actively engaged in critical thinking and critical action towards addressing and responding to these issues.
Lish.Francoeur@georgebrown.ca  
Club Name
Description
Email 
Barbers Club
This club is here to offer some valuable work experience to students who may choose to join. From computer programming, to marketing, and even business management. Of course there will be the main objective of getting others to learn how to cut hair as well as raising money to run a bunch of hair cutting events.
Nelson.Ortiz@georgebrown.ca 
Byte Club 
The Byte Club is a casual and competitive gaming community meant to foster innovations both in the game development and gaming field. We hold talk nights and online game nights.
robbie@oxley.ca 
Chess Club 
Our purpose to this club is to ensure that the tradition and knowledge of chess would spread to GBC students as chess is a game of strategy and it evokes mental strength.
elia.3a0@gmail.com  
Dungeons and Dragons Club
To allow students to gather and play tabletop games and meet other like-minded people.
dop.oleapinto@georgebrown.ca 
GBC Foosball Club
The purpose of this club is to ensure that the foosball table, that are always stacked with balls and subsequently bring people together after going through two and a half years online.
Josh.farber@georgebrown.ca 
GBC Dragon Boat Club
GBC Dragon Boat is a collective of students that participates in the annual Dragon Boat Race Festival.
GBC Huskies Men's Hockey Club
We are the GBC Extramural Men’s Hockey Team. We play 4 tournaments this year, representing the GNC Athletics Department at other colleges around Southern Ontario. We practice every week on Wednesdays. We seek club support to help sponsor our tracksuits, and tournament travel.
evan.herman27@gmail.com 
GBC OLAS
The Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS) provides students at George Brown College with Hispanic/Latino descent with the opportunity to share their culture with all students, faculty, and staff at George Brown College. The network welcomes all students to join this network. OLAS serves as an academic space, focusing on discussions and activities such as: education, culture, history, politics, and events.
GbcOlas@Gmail.com 
GBC Pool Club
Our purpose to this club is to ensure that the foosball tables are always stocked with balls, and subsequently bring people together after going through two and a half years online.
Josh.farber@georgebrown.ca  
Huskies Women Social Network
We are the GBC Extramural Men’s Hockey Team. We play 4 tournaments this year, representing the GNC Athletics Department at other colleges around Southern Ontario. We practice every week on Wednesdays. We seek club support to help sponsor our tracksuits, and tournament travel.
laaibahrehan19@gmail.com 
Ultimate Frisbee Club
g.zambrano@georgebrown.ca 
 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.