
George Brown College’s accessibility policies provide clear guidance on how the college will achieve the applicable obligations and responsibilities under the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act, 2005, S.O. 2005, c. 11 and the O. Reg. 191/11: Integrated Accessibility Standards, in adherence with the key principles of dignity, independence, integration and equal opportunity.
AODA Accessibility PolicyThis policy applies to all members of the college, which includes employees, students, volunteers and any others, including third parties, who provide goods, services or facilities on behalf of the organization and serve the college community.
AODA Workplace Accommodation Policy  This policy applies to any George Brown college employee with a disability who may require accommodation, and to prospective employees who may require accommodation during the selection process at the college. This policy includes the AODA Individual Accommodation Plan Form.
Emergency Evacuation Planning and Procedures This policy includes procedures for implementing individual emergency response plans for employees with disabilities and templates for creating individual emergency response plans, in accordance with the AODA. Employees should submit their request for an Individualized Emergency Response Plan to their Supervisor and direct any questions to the college's Manager, Safety & Wellness.
AODA Multi-Year Accessibility Plan  In accordance with our organizational obligations under the AODA Integrated Accessibility Standards Regulation (O. Reg. 191/11, s. 4 (1) (2)), the College has prepared this multi-year plan which contains the deliverables and activities that will be addressed over the next 3 to 5 years.
AODA Notice of Service Disruption Template  All service areas will provide customers with appropriate notice in the event of a planned or unexpected disruption in the facilities or services. This notice will include information about the reason for the disruption, its anticipated duration and a description of alternative facilities or services, whenever available.
Related Policies and Resources:
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.