
Aim for well-lit streets. The TTC Request Stop Service allows riders travelling alone at night, between 9pm and 5am, the opportunity to be dropped off between stops. In your car or on foot, if encountering suspicious person, immediately attract attention or “HONK”/ use panic button on car fob. Have your keys ready in your hand and your cell phone ready for use.
If you are a target of online bullying or bullying through social media please submit your complaint to Campus Security at 416-415-4000 and Toronto Police at 416-808-2222 (extension '0' for Communications) or Ontario Provincial Police toll-free at 1-888-310-1122.
Avoid dimly lit and low traffic areas. Be assertive. Trust your instinct. Be aware of what is happening all around you. If someone you know has threatened to cause bodily harm to themselves or has behaved violently towards others, contact Police: 911, or if calling from a college phone, dial 9-911. Do not challenge the attacker or invade their personal space. 
Refer unknown or suspicious persons to building Security. Do not allow entrance of unknown persons. If you suspect a break-in, use a neighbours’ phone to call police. ‘Neighbourhood Watch’ and ‘Vertical Watch’ programs help building residents mutually create security awareness in residential areas. If you are experiencing domestic violence please call security.
Note: This information is courtesy of the Public Safety & Security Division at George Brown College.
“System-wide Security in Concert with System-wide Safety.” 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.