
George Brown College Archives is responsible for all confidential destruction from all departments, offices, and employees of the college. Whatever can’t be put in a recycling bin must be destroyed by George Brown Archives in the manner described by this procedure. Erring on the side of caution, all material containing information about students, employees, and the business of the college is destroyed in the same manner, ensuring that no sensitive information of any kind will be leaked to the public. 
You can download the Shred Console Tracking Sheet and Manager’s Authorization forms here(either PDF or Word format). If you have documents/materials matching the record types listed on the Shred Console Tracking Sheet, place the material in the console and fill in the tracking sheet.Example of record types to place in the console:
It is essential that the tracking sheet is filled in completely. This information is required by law for the college to destroy the material. Think of this as a receipt for the items destroyed. If the tracking sheet is not filled out correctly, your department will have to go through the entire console to discover what is in it, and then fill out the tracking sheet.
At the designated pick-up date (or when the console is full), the console must be sealed, the tracking sheet and manager’s authorization sent to Archives, and the console will be emptied by Access Storage staff. There may be a short delay of 1 or 2 days while signatures are obtained before the console is emptied.
If for some reason you cannot use a console, contact the archivist to make other arrangements. Please note: an abundance of material is not a valid reason to not use the consoles.
If you have any questions, please get in touch with our Archivist, Clay Thibodeau:Tel: (416) 415-5000 Ext. 4771Fax: 416-415-4772E-mail: cthibodeau@georgebrown.ca
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.