
Improve your English in the evening or on the weekend with one of our Con Ed (Part-Time) certificate program.
IMPORTANT NOTE: The Winter 2024 semester courses for the Con Ed ESL Part-Time program will run from January 16 – April 22, 2024. The ESL compulsory courses will continue to be offered in hybrid delivery mode while all ESL elective courses will be offered online only. 
For the ESL elective courses, students are required to attend scheduled synchronous (real-time) online classes. These interactive, engaging, and dynamic virtual classes will be delivered through learning platforms such as Zoom or Microsoft Teams, discussion boards, and other interactive technology tools. Course learning materials will be accessed through D2L Brightspace, the Learning Management System used at George Brown College. Online classes will be recorded, and the recordings will be stored in the D2L Brightspace course shell. Students are required to have access to a computer with a reliable Internet connection and camera, and good speakers or headphones.
All ESL elective courses will be offered in the in-person delivery mode only. Students are required to attend in-person classes at a scheduled time. These classes will be delivered on campus (341 King St E) and will not be recorded.
Apply to this part-time certificate to improve your personal, professional and academic English language skills.
Apply to this program if you have advanced English skills and want to develop your professional communication skills.
Apply to this program if you need to meet the English Language admission requirements for George Brown Certificate, Diploma or Postgraduate Certificate programs (without co-op).
Unless you are registering for ESL IA, you must come in for an English placement test to determine the level you should start in. You can also present IELTS (Academic) or TOEFL test results to the program coordinator and be admitted directly into the appropriate ESL level. The tests must be taken within the last six months and the test results must be submitted before the scheduled date of the placement test.
All the information you need to register for the course(s) will be provided to you on the same day of the test, along with your test results.
Register for the Placement Test
You must achieve a cumulative grade average of B (73%) or better in all courses.
There are two requirements for completing the certificate:
For example:
If you have completed an ESL course at George Brown College within the last six months, you can apply to start at the next level without having to complete a placement test.
Registration for returning ESL students as well as new students takes place online for the Winter 2024 Semester (January 16 - April 22, 2024).
REGISTER NOW 
The IELTS exam preparation courses are designed for intermediate to advanced level ESL students who plan to do the IELTS exam (Academic or General Training module) and wish to achieve their desired score through in-depth practice of listening, speaking, reading and writing strategies related to the type of questions asked during the exam. Students benefit from authentic materials used in the class and the opportunity to receive feedback from instructors on performance as well as tips on how to improve their IELTS score.
This course is for ESL students who plan to apply for a working visa, permanent residence in Canada, or Canadian citizenship and are required to submit a proof of English language proficiency as part of their application.
Learn when this course operates
Visit our Continuing Education website to learn more.
Continuing Education
Learn more about being an International Learner at George Brown College.
International Learners
Visit our Continuing Education website to learn more about their policies.
Policies
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.