
Important Note: The Centre for Business offices have reopened at the St. James Campus in 313-A.
The Centre for Business Support Team is available to assist Business student with registration, program transfers, academic holds and other student service issues.
The fastest way to contact us is through our Student Service Desk.
313-A Office Hours: 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM
The quickest way to connect with the Centre for Business is through our virtual desk.
Virtual Service Desk Hours: 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM
The virtual service desk is closed between noon and 1:00 pm each day.
Join the Virtual Service Desk queue and when it is your turn, a Centre for Business Student Support Specialist will connect with you via MS-TEAMS OR via phone, as requested.
Download Teams
In-person Service: When it is your turn, meet a Centre for Business Student Support Specialist in person at Casa Loma Campus.
*RECOMMENDED* Read the FAQ below first. You may not need to access the Student Service Desk.
Centre for Business Inquiry Form
Due to larger than normal inquiry volumes, the average response time during the first two weeks of a term and the first week of registration will be longer than normal. Visits to the Student Service Desk are prioritized.
We recommend that you contact your program coordinator or chair. They can help you remove the academic hold and continue your registration. You can expect a reply within two business days but if not, please contact the Centre for Business Student Service Desk for assistance.
You can use the Program Finder to view your program page online, the contact information for your Chair and Program Coordinator is listed under the Contact Us section.
We have resources that can help you. The Financial Aid section of our website should be able to answer many of your questions. Our How to Pay for College guide may be a good place for you to start. For more specific information, visit the links below:
OSAP 
Student Awards & Scholarships
Work Study Program
Tuition Fees & Costs 
Please feel free to contact the Financial Aid Office at FinAid@georgebrown.ca. We recommend that you use your GBC email so that we can verify your identity.
For domestic students, we recommend visiting the Apply section of our website. Here you will find information on how to apply or how to accept your offer, Entry Advising, admission requirements, academic upgrading, tuition fees and costs, financial aid, and transferring credits.
You can also contact Admissions at admissions@georgebrown.ca for more help.
For international students, we recommend visiting the Future Students section of our website. Here you will find information on how to apply, international-eligible programs, admission requirements, life at George Brown, and working in Canada.
You can also contact the International Centre by submitting an inquiry.
Submit an inquiry
For domestic students, you need to visit the OCAS website to withdraw from your current program and indicate what your preferred program is.
Visit OCAS
For international students, you need to visit our international application site to withdraw from your current program and indicate what your preferred program is.
Visit the international application site
If you want to change to a Business diploma program, please connect with us at the Centre for Business Student Service Desk.
If you want to change to the Business degree program, please connect with the program coordinator. For inquiries related to the Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Financial Services) (B302), for example, course-specific information, please contact the Co-ordinator: Niraj Sinha, Program Co-ordinator, Financial Planning specialization at Niraj.Sinha@georgebrown.caor
For inquiries related to Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Business Analytics) B303 (for example, course-specific information) please contact the co-ordinator:
Please contact the academic division of the program you want to transfer to.
Access The Office of the Registrar Virtual Service Desk to connect with Domestic Admissions, Financial Aid, and International Enrollment Services* (for current international students only). The desk is open Monday to Thursday, 10 AM to 2 PM.
Access The Office of the Registrar Virtual Service Desk
Get answers to frequently asked questions about admissions, registration, and student support services at George Brown College.
Visit Ask George
 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.