
Thank you for your interest in George Brown College. Due to the high volume of applications and admissions inquiries, please direct your question(s) to our admissions email address at admissions@georgebrown.ca. We monitor this email address on a regular basis (Monday to Friday) and will respond at our earliest opportunity. Please include your OCAS application ID and George Brown Student ID Number on all correspondence.
Alternatively, you may call the Contact Centre to have your inquiry addressed: 416.415.2000 or 1-800-265-2002.
For International (Visa) Student inquiries, please contact International Admissions by submitting an inquiry here.
Important update – Ontario Colleges’ Application Cycle for the Fall 2023 Intake
Beginning with the 2023-24 College Application cycle, the earliest date that Ontario Colleges can release offers of admission to qualified applicants will be November 1, 2022.
Most programs at George Brown will be eligible for this early offer, depending on your date of application submission. May 1, 2023 will still be the deadline date to confirm an offer of admission for Fall 2023, and the payment deposit date will still be in mid-June, 2023.
This change does not affect the February 1, 2023 equal consideration date for highly competitive programs.
All qualified applications to highly competitive programs will be considered for available spaces equally until February 1, 2023.  After this date, we will still consider applicants in sequence until programs are full.
Please see your specific program page to know if your program is in this category. 
If you're having trouble logging into your Stu-view account or George Brown E-mail, please speak to one of the representatives from the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 or 1-800-265-2002. The regular operating hours are:
You may also go to the self-service password utility homepage at George Brown College to reset your password or change your Forgotten Password Information.Password FAQs
Ideally, all documentation (such as official transcripts) should be submitted to Ontario Colleges directly; please contact OCAS at 1-888-892-2228 for instructions on how to do so. You may also be able to order electronic transcripts through their website.
If you have received a letter asking you take an admissions assessment, you can book the test either online or over the phone. More details on how to book an assessment test can be found at the Assessment Centre website.
All communications from George Brown College will be sent to the address that was on your Ontario College Application. If you have changed your address, please update your information, including your phone number and email address, at George Brown College by logging on to Stu-View and at the OCAS website.
It is very important that your address is updated on our system or else letters mailed will go to your old address and you will not receive the information in a timely manner.
* Please include your GBC ID and OCAS application numbers within the subject line of your emails to the Admissions Office (Domestic).
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.