
The fastest way to connect with the Office of the Registrar is by using the WaitWell app to access our Virtual Service Desk. Join the queue to connect with one of our representatives.
Phone:  416-415-2000
ACCESS THE VIRTUAL SERVICE DESK
Once in the queue, you will be notified by a Representative on how they will connect with you.
Responsible for processing applications and student mailing.
Due to the high volume of applications and admissions inquiries, please direct your question (s) to our admissions email address at admissions@georgebrown.ca. We monitor this email address on a regular basis (Monday to Friday) and will respond at our earliest opportunity. Please include your OCAS application ID and George Brown Student ID Number on all correspondence.
Responsible for OSAP, work-study, bursaries, scholarships, and awards.
General InquiriesFinAid@georgebrown.ca
Awards InquiriesAwards@georgebrown.ca
Responsible for ensuring that student registration records are processed, including; course registrations, payments, course or program withdrawals, RESP Request Forms.
To contact registration staff please send an inquiry to the Registration Department or for Continuing Education students sending a withdrawal inquiry to the Continuing Education department.
Responsible for ensuring that student records are accurate and accessible when requested, including grades, transcripts, credentials, and convocation.
To contact us please send an inquiry to the Records Department, call 416-415-2000, or come in person to any of the Student Service Centres. Frequently Used Forms include Transcript Request Forms, Education Verification Requests, Credential Replacement Request Forms.
Information about Convocation. Staff can be reached here: convocation@georgebrown.ca. 
Please note that Convocation email account is monitored from March to the end of June.
Please contact your Academic Department for grades and confirmation that you have met all the requirements to graduate. If unsure of the number, you can call via the Contact Centre at 416 415-2000 or visit the  George Brown Contact Us page.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.