
The College would like to celebrate your achievement with an in-person Convocation ceremony. Ceremonies will take place from June 12–16, 2023. Please check back for updates as the information below may change.
George Brown staff will be happy to assist you at the Customer Service Kiosk. When you arrive at the Meridian Hall, watch for George Brown signage, which will assist you in finding your way around.
In order to be part of the convocation procession, members of the graduating classes are asked to assemble in the line-up room at least 60 minutes before the start of the ceremony.
You must have your registration card and your gown.
We encourage you to arrive at least 1 ½ hours before your scheduled ceremony. If for whatever reason you are unable to get there on time and arrive while the graduate procession is being marshalled to their seats or after, you will be considered late.
We will try our best to make sure that you walk across the stage; however, you will go across the stage at the end of the procession and not with classmates. It is important that you proceed in the assigned order since we want to ensure that your credential is available when you go backstage. If you arrive late, it is not guaranteed that you will be able to cross the stage.
The George Brown staff cannot take responsibility for your personal belongings at the convocation ceremonies. Please leave items with your family and friends
On signal from the convocation staff, graduates will proceed in single file onto the stage. Remember to have your registration card available. The card will be taken from you on stage. As your name is read, you should proceed across the stage. Once you go backstage, you will receive your credential. Students who graduated from the summer or fall semesters will not receive another credential but will receive an envelope with a congratulatory letter.This procedure will continue until all graduates have been called.Graduates are asked to return to their original seats after receiving their credentials.If you are the valedictorian, proceed to the designated seat.Guests are encouraged to remain in their seats and enjoy the ceremony. Pictures can be taken either before or after the ceremony.
Note:Graduates from the Winter semester who are not in attendance at the convocation ceremony will be mailed their credentials two weeks after the ceremony.
At the conclusion of the ceremony, the recessional will be played and the platform guests will be the first to leave the theatre, followed by graduates and then guests.
There will be a reception after the ceremony for graduates, guests, and faculty. Light refreshments will be served.
Please return your gown and hood before leaving Meridian Hall.
For information on parking, public transportation, and local restaurants please visit the Meridian Hall website.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.