
The College would like to celebrate your achievement with an in-person Convocation ceremony. Ceremonies will take place from June 12–16, 2023. Please check back for updates as the information below may change.
Proudly display your accomplishments with a George Brown College custom frame for your diploma, certificate or degree. All frames are high quality with acid-free mats tastefully imprinted with a gold George Brown College logo. Your diploma can be professionally framed and ready to hang, literally in minutes. Do-it-yourself framing is extremely simple. No wires, screws, or complicated assembly is required.
Please note that pre-ordered frames cannot be picked up at Convocation. Orders can be shipped to your desired location for a minimal shipping charge, or they can be picked up at the St. James Campus Bookstore.
Guests will have the opportunity to celebrate a graduate by purchasing or pre-ordering a celebratory bouquet of flowers prior to the ceremony. The flowers booth, run by Commencement Group, will be located at the entrance to Meridian Hall.
Pre-orders can be completed at the GeorgeBrown/Commencement Group website.
Please note that pre-ordered flowers will be available for pick-up at the venue on the day of the graduate’s ceremony.
George Brown takes pride in recognizing alumni achievements and celebrates the ongoing success of our graduates in their personal and professional lives. To help mark the significant achievement of the successful completion of a George Brown credential, Alumni Relations, in partnership with Convocation Flowers will be selling convocation t-shirts available online here: www.convocationflowers.ca/georgebrown.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.