
As a student, you may experience a range of mental health issues that may result in significant barriers to achieving your personal and academic goals. George Brown’s Counselling and Student Well-being Services offers a wide range of free and confidential services and programs that may be able to assist you. Let our professional counselling staff support you in learning to solve problems and develop ways to attain your goals – in your education and in your life.
Learn more about our locations
Sign up
Sign in to Portal
Check out some great information and resources on self-care strategies, managing loneliness, boredom, and stress, relationships, anxiety and plenty more.
Get to know more about what counselling actually is and our commitment to confidentiality. You’ll also be able to read through some of our Frequently Asked Questions.
Learn more about how to register with our services and what you can expect.
Being a student can be challenging, but your peers are here to support you. See all the ways your peer community have you covered.
There are many resources in the community to help with mental health counselling, crisis supports, peer supports, medical care and other needs.
Learn how you can help your students and yourself with these helpful resources.
Our monthly podcast, Let's Talk, features George Brown counsellors who aim to provide you with helpful tips and topical information related to student well-being and holistic living. You can find it on various platforms, or listen to it right on our site!
Our wellness and mindfulness videos are created and hosted by George Brown College counsellors. They explore topics like better sleep, mindfulness and more.
The George Brown College Counselling Department agrees to keep any information you share in strictest confidence. Under the Privacy Act, we cannot disclose any information without your signed consent. However, we are required by law to disclose information when: we become aware of current child abuse; an individual clearly presents danger to self or others; we are subpoenaed for records or testimony by the courts.
Learn more about the George Brown College Counselling and Student Well-Being Privacy Policy and the Remote Counselling Service Policy.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.