You may be exempted from a specific George Brown College program requirement or from a specific George Brown College prerequisite requirement if you have completed a course that is equivalent at another accredited post-secondary educational institution.
You must ensure that the course for which you wish to get credit meets the relevant department requirements.
To be eligible for an exemption from a course run by the Business Studies department, you must meet the following requirements:
To be eligible for an exemption from a course run by the Community & Health Services department, you must meet the following requirements:
To be eligible for an exemption from a course run by the Emergency Management department, you must meet the following requirements:
To be eligible for an exemption from a course run by the Fashion & Creative Arts department, you must meet the following requirements:
To be eligible for an exemption from a course run by the Hospitality & Culinary Arts department, you must meet the following requirements:
To be eligible for an exemption from a paralegal course, you must meet the following requirements:
To be eligible for an exemption from a course run by the Liberal Studies department, you must meet the following requirements:
Exemption from a course run by the Makeup and Esthetics department is handled on a case-by-case basis. (Contact the department co-ordinator for further details.)
To be eligible for an exemption from a course run by the Nursing department, you must meet the following requirements:
To be eligible for an exemption from a course run by the Technology & Trades department, you must meet the following requirements:
To be eligible for an exemption from a course run by the Visual Arts & Design department, you must meet the following requirements:
You must request a course exemption in writing. To request a course exemption, follow these steps:
If your exemption is granted, your grade in the exempted course will be EX. Any credit courses from which you have been exempted will be excluded from any grade point average (GPA) calculations (if applicable).
George Brown College is located on the traditional territory of the Mississaugas of the Credit First Nation and other Indigenous peoples who have lived here over time. We are grateful to share this land as treaty people who learn, work and live in the community with each other.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment on the college-wide website.
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.