
Faculty, Staff and Students will:   
In the event that a faculty/staff or student member witnesses a criminal act, they are to take the following action:
Call Campus Security immediately at:  911 and 416-415-4000 or "0" from a George Brown College internal Cisco phone.
If safe to do so, using your authority as a faculty/staff member attempt to verbally intervene. Please note: Faculty /staff are not expected to place themselves in an unsafe situation.
If outside the classroom or office, remain in a safe location if possible. If it is not safe to remain on site, move to a safe location, such as an office or classroom and report your location to Campus Security
If inside a campus building, move into a classroom or office, close and secure the door, ensure the safety of the students and staff in the classroom or office, and report your location to Campus Security.
If the act is committed in a classroom or office and doesn’t show evidence of de‐escalating, contact Campus Security if safe to do so at (416) 415-4000 or "0" from a George Brown College internal Cisco phone. Otherwise, signal someone in the room or area to contact Security, and if necessary evacuate the students, staff and others from the classroom or office and move to a safe location. Report your location to Campus Security.
Assist Campus Security and/or police officers when they arrive by providing all pertinent information.
If weapons are involved, faculty/staff are not to become involved. Immediately evacuate the students to a place of safety, call Campus Security and report your location and any pertinent information regarding the criminal act. Call Police immediately at 911. Security’s number at George Brown College is 416-415-4000 or 0 from a George Brown College internal Cisco phone.
[Back to Emergency Procedures]
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.