
Brightspace Stu-View Office 365 Email Tech Support Winter 2024 Delivery  MyGBC Student Portal
From the day you accept your offer to the day you graduate, the Student Life team provides orientation and transition programming to support you on your journey! Check out our Orientation pages — and our Online Orientation site — to get all the important information and events to get you started.
The MyGBC Student Portal is your virtual GBC home base. Besides having all of your quick links and tools in one spot, it's also your best source of student news, events and opportunities. Make sure to bookmark it and check it regularly!
Life as a George Brown College student is full of opportunities for success at school and beyond! In this weekly podcast, George Brown students lead thought-provoking interviews that delve into different services, supports, groups and events affecting students on a daily basis. From highlighting academic and human rights services to providing tips for managing finances and wellness, there’s something here for every student.
Subscribe and listen wherever you listen to podcasts!
YouTube Spotify Apple Podcasts
You did it! You made it to the end of the semester! It's time to celebrate. Join the MyGBCPodcast host, Pantea, and producer, Claire, as we discuss our favourite episodes from this past season and give you a little sneak-peak of what's to come in the Winter 2024 season.
 
Key Moments:
3:08 – Claire and Pantea's favourite episodes from this semester
11:10 – Preview of next semester's episodes
13:44 – Where you come in to next season's episodes
14:42 – Some ideas on what to do over the holidays!
Ask George Brown is the place to go to find answers — and submit your own — about student life at GBC.
Many free services are available to you as a GBC student. You can access counselling, tutoring, accessibility services, career advising and more.
Taking courses online? We have plenty of tips on how to maximize your virtual education!
If you are experiencing an emergency or need urgent assistance, there are a range of services available to help.
For on-campus emergencies, please call 416-415-4000 or dial "0" from an internal college Cisco phone.
After-hours counselling & crisis resourcesCounselling & Student Well-beingMore info on Safety & Security on campus
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.