
Students not residing in Canada are eligible for a credit/refund for the Student Association Health Insurance paid fees.
Health Insurance Waiver
Located on the St. James Campus, the International Centre coordinates the College’s international student services and opportunities in order to provide the best support for students, staff and other members of our learning community. We’re here to support you on your road to academic success, no matter where you're coming from or where you're headed.
International Students must have valid documents to stay and study in Canada. 
Scholarships for international students are generally in-program and are often based on academic performance and other criteria.
Find all the important dates you'll need during your time at George Brown College.
Learn how to apply for a withdrawal or refund. Find the forms you need and frequently asked questions.
To make sure that you graduate officially and are ready to work after graduation, there are a few things that you need to do.
Set-up an appointment with one of our International Student Advisors for more in-depth advising or if you require more time to have your questions answered.
A proof of enrolment or certification letter provides proof that you are a registered George Brown student and is required for a variety of application processes. To request a proof of enrolment letter you must have already submitted your study permit.
Submit Study Permit
Request Proof of Enrolment Letter
There are a variety of services and supports you have access to at George Brown College, ranging from our health plan to career services and more. For more information on a few additional services you have access to, view the options below:
Health insurance for international students is managed by the George Brown College Student Association. For more information on your health plan visit their Health Benefits Program webpage.
Unless you have opted for an enhanced plan, you will be, or have been enrolled in the balanced Plan. Should you wish to move to an enhanced plan you need to make this choice each policy year prior to the deadline date of the start of your semester, at no additional cost.
For more information please visit the We Speak Student website.
George Brown Athletics offers fitness centres, fitness classes as well as George Brown College intramural sports teams.
George Brown can provide students with official academic transcripts for applications, official documentation or other purposes. Transcript requests must be submitted in writing. Please find more information about requesting a transcript on the George Brown transcript webpage.
There are a number of ways to improve your English and/or get help with your studies:
Many students occasionally face difficult challenges, either in school or in their personal lives. George Brown College’s professional counsellors are able to provide free, confidential help for both academic and non-academic issues.
To book an appointment with a counsellor drop by one of the counselling offices or email letstalk@georgebrown.ca.
The Career Centre offers a variety of services designed to help you achieve your career goals. These include workshops, an online job board and individual consultations with an advisor. You can learn more about these services on the Career Centre webpage.
A friend or family member may want to visit you during your stay in Canada. In most cases, the friend or relative will be required to apply for a Temporary Resident Visa (TRV) in order to enter Canada. Follow these steps when you want to invite someone to visit:
 
Do you have any questions? We have answers. Visit our Ask George FAQs for answers to questions about admissions, registration, and student support services.
Visit Ask George FAQ
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.