
As Associate Vice-President, Global Partnerships and Education, David Begg champions internationalization at George Brown College and provides strategic leadership in advancing international activities and learning. Working in close partnership with the International Centre, Student Success, the provost, and the academic divisions, he oversees efforts to increase the college’s global footprint. 
Prior to joining George Brown, David played a pivotal role in advancing international efforts at Toronto Metropolitan University (formerly Ryerson). He held progressive leadership positions within the international division where he led research, consultation, and development of the university’s first internationalization strategy in 2019.  
David continued to lead significant change at Toronto Metropolitan University as the Interim Director of the Real Institute, the university’s English as an additional language unit. He positioned the institute for future success and established close connections to academic units and other university stakeholders. Following his time leading the Real Institute, David built relationships both internally and externally to boost international student enrolment and retention as Associate Director of Strategic Partnerships, part of the university’s International Student Enrolment, Education and Inclusion portfolio. 
David holds a Bachelor of Arts in History from the University of Toronto and a Master of Education from the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education (OISE) at the University of Toronto, with a specialization in Comparative, International and Development Education. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.