
These courses are currently postponed until further notice. Please check back for updates.
If you are thinking of, or have applied to a degree program at George Brown College, but don't have all the needed high school courses, you can now earn those credits right at the college.Our university level (or U-Level) courses will help you to refresh your academic skills as well as meet your degree program standards and expectations.
We offer four U-level courses:
With the exception of our Bachelor of Science in Nursing program (S118), all George Brown degree programs will accept the successful completion of a U-level course to satisfy George Brown admission requirements. Please note: These U-level courses are not applicable to satisfy admission requirements to degree programs outside of George Brown College, and will not affect a student's overall GPA.
George Brown's U-Level Bridging courses are tuition-free, but there is an initial fee to complete a reading and writing assessment through the Assessment Centre. When you have registered for the course, a representative will be in touch with you regarding next steps.
*courses will only run based on student enrolment
For more information about the U-Level Bridging program, email gbcdegreebridging@georgebrown.ca or call (416) 415-5000 ext. 3683.
Eligible students register below and a U-Level Bridging Program representative will connect with you soon.
REGISTER FOR DEGREE PREPARATION - MATHEMATICS
REGISTER FOR DEGREE PREPARATION - ENGLISH
REGISTER FOR DEGREE PREPARATION - BIOLOGY
REGISTER FOR DEGREE PREPARATION - GENERAL SCIENCE
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.