
We are pleased to launch our new e-course, "Doing the Work: An Introduction to Anti-Racism." The course is uniquely GBC — it is different than previous anti-racism learning opportunities as it was made by us for us. 
Our entire college community is encouraged to take the time to complete the course. For employees, it can be accessed via Cornerstone, and students can access it on Brightspace. Through this course, we hope to make space for ongoing discussion, enable good faith questions, and engage in conversations about the content. 
All members of the College community are strongly encouraged to complete this course.   
All incoming students will be automatically enrolled in “Doing the Work: An Introduction to Anti-Racism” on Brightspace. Staff and faculty can access the course online through Cornerstone. 
Anti-Racism learning and development are forms of institutional practices that support the integration of race-conscious principles and values of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion. Cultivating these values throughout the GBC community is necessary if we are to address racial and social inequities and ensure that all members of our community are meaningfully included and can succeed without barriers related to the ways in which they have been racialized. 
The Anti-Racism e-course is the next step in our learning journey and provides another vehicle to enable more race-conscious (traditional and non-traditional) dialogue and self-reflection within and among teams. 
This is a self-directed 90+ minute, 3-module course that provides you with an introduction to the ideas, language, concepts, and discourses related to race, racism, and anti-racism. 
The course is uniquely GBC - this is different than previous anti-racism learning opportunities as it was made by us for us. Therefore, all members of the college community, from employees to students, are encouraged to complete the course. 
Employees can login via Cornerstone and students can login via Brightspace.  
The e-course takes between 90 minutes and three hours to complete. There are three modules to the course, so you can take it at your own pace.  
We encourage students to complete the e-course before their term begins. At GBC we are committed to embedding Anti-Racism practices in our learning and working environments. Thus, new students are expected to understand and learn about GBC’s anti-racism values.  Those enrolled in the course can revisit it any time through Brightspace or Cornerstone.  
Staff and faculty are encouraged to complete the e-course within the first 90 days of employment. This course is a tangible tool to support your implementation of an anti-racist lens to your work.  
All incoming students are enrolled in the Anti-Racism e-course on Brightspace. All onboarding staff are also enrolled via Cornerstone. Staff are to complete the e-course within first 90 days of employment.  
The e-course will help you understand what anti-racism means for George Brown College.  
George Brown College is engaged in ongoing work towards anti-racism and racial equity. The Anti-Racism e-course is part of our learning journey.  
Anti-Racism learning and development are forms of institutional practices that support the integration of race-conscious principles and EDII values. Cultivating these values throughout the GBC community is necessary if we are to address racial inequities and ensure that all members of our community are meaningfully included and can succeed without barriers related to the ways in which they have been racialized.  
If you are an incoming student, the e-course will be on your Brightspace home page. Go to learn.georgebrown.ca and log in with your GBC credentials to access it. You will be able to access Brightspace once you have registered for courses.  
Self-enrollment for current students will be available in the Winter term — stay tuned. 
Current employees can access the employee version on Cornerstone.  
If you are seeking to enroll a group of students in the anti-racism e-course, please use this form.  
We encourage all students to complete the e-course to help improve your understanding of anti-racism in the George Brown College context. You can unenroll from the e-course by emailing OAREHRS for the removal form.  
As part of our strategic plan and as a signatory to the Scarborough Charter, GBC is committed to our anti-racism action plan. You can explore the plan here and our 2023 updates here. 
Stay up to date on OAREHRS initiatives through our monthly email newsletter and follow OAREHRS on Instagram.  
The Office of Anti-Racism, Equity & Human Rights Services has compiled numerous resources to support your learning about anti-racism. You can access them on our microsite. 
OAREHRS also offers training and educational opportunities throughout the year. Visit our Education page to find out more. You can request education through this form.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.