
Donations to the Food Court Social will support the Augmented Education program.
George Brown College’s Augmented Education Program (Aug Ed) helps individuals with mental health and addiction challenges find and maintain employment. Aug Ed gives students the tools to achieve degrees of independence that would otherwise be extremely difficult to attain. Aug Ed provides job-focused education and training as well as post-program placement support.
This program offers two streams of training: the Culinary Skills (Preparatory Training) Program and the Construction Craft Worker Foundations Program. Successful completion of the program affords students their Ontario College Certificate as well as assistance finding jobs relevant to their training.
Aug Ed is offered at no cost to students and is partially funded by the government and by fundraising efforts. As the government provides performance-based funding, this means levels of funding fluctuate year-to-year. The funding raised by the Food Court Social is therefore essential to keeping this exceptional program operational and to help even more persons struggling with mental health and addiction challenges. 100% of net proceeds from the Food Court Social will go directly to the Augmented Education program.
The Aug Ed program continues to function and serve its students from a distance during the pandemic, and as such, students still need your help.
If you have any questions, please contact Samantha Walker, Events, Communications, & Administration Officer:
416-415-5000, ext. 3005 or  Samantha.Walker@georgebrown.ca
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.