
As Provost, Dr. Cory Ross leads George Brown College’s strategy in the areas of academic programming, global education, research and innovation, registration services, and student success. His leadership in delivering high-quality and innovative academic programs is integral to the college’s reputation, both domestically and internationally, as a leading provider of post-secondary education.  
Working collaboratively with the vice-president, academic and deans, Cory oversees the creation, delivery and academic priorities and programs at the college’s seven academic centres. He also guides the activities of the Office of the Registrar, Office of Research and Innovation, global partnerships and education, and the division of Student Success — all with a focus on George Brown’s strategic priorities as outlined in Vision 2030, Strategy 2026. 
Cory has held progressive leadership positions since joining George Brown College in 2007, including Interim Executive Dean and Dean of the Centre for Community Services and Early Childhood and the Centre for Health Sciences and Vice-President, Academic. Prior to joining George Brown, Cory was Vice-President, Academic and Executive Director of Institutional Development at the Canadian College of Naturopathic Medicine from 1994 to 2003. He was the Manager of Organizational Health at Mount Sinai Hospital from 2004 to 2007, and he was the president and CEO of a biotech research firm from 1989 to 2004. 
Cory’s extensive research career has attracted more than $7 million in research grants, and he has published more than 70 research papers in peer-reviewed journals. Cory earned a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology and a Master of Science in Anatomy at the University of Manitoba, a Doctor of Chiropractic from the Canadian Memorial Chiropractic College, a Diploma in Strategic Management from Oxford University, and a Master of Business Administration (MBA) in Health Care Management from Queen Margaret University in Scotland. He is a Certified Health Executive (CHE). 
In 2015, Cory was granted a fellowship from the U.K.-based Royal Society for Public Health. He is one of only 10 Canadians to receive this prestigious designation. In 2018, Cory was granted member laureate status by the Bethune Medical Development Association of Canada, an organization that promotes co-operative efforts between Canadian and Chinese medical professionals in medical research, education, public health, patient care and humanitarian work.  
Cory was elected to the Fellowship of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh (FRCP Edin) in the spring of 2019. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.