
Dr. Eileen De Courcy joined George Brown College as Vice-President, Academic in August 2022. She leads the academic enterprise with a focus on innovative programming and academic excellence. 
Working collaboratively with the academic team, Eileen oversees the development and delivery of effective programs that result in high levels of student satisfaction, success, and professional achievement. She is committed to creating learning environments that reflect the best elements of faculty expertise, learning services and spaces, industry/community partnerships, and the use of emerging technologies. 
Eileen has extensive experience working across educational systems including secondary school, university, college and executive education. Prior to joining George Brown College, Eileen served as Senior Vice-President, Academic at St. Lawrence College in Kingston, Ontario. She also held progressive leadership roles at Humber College, including Associate Vice-President, Academic Teaching and Learning and Director of Professional Development. Prior to joining the college system, Eileen held various leadership positions at York University and the Simcoe Muskoka School Board. She spent several years teaching including serving as an adjunct professor at Brock University 
Eileen holds a PhD in Curriculum and Pedagogy from the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education at the University of Toronto, a Master of Arts in Education Administration from Central Michigan University, a Bachelor of Education in Adult Education from Brock University, and a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Guelph. 
Eileen has received recognition and awards for leading innovations in teaching and learning in higher education. Most notably, for leading the development of cutting-edge virtual reality content in college curriculum and for her work in reimagining learning spaces in higher education. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.