
This month marks the first anniversary of Dr. Gervan Fearon joining George Brown College as President. To commemorate this milestone, he shares his reflections on his first year on the job – including what he’s learned, his most memorable moments and what comes next.  
What have you learned about George Brown College during your first year?  
Since my first day at George Brown, I have spent time meeting with students and hearing how enthusiastic they are about their studies, their careers and their experiences at the college.  
I have watched colleagues teach students how to weld, operate a break press machine, and a metal milling lathe – machines I learned to use myself while working over many summers at jobs in a sheet metal factory. I have witnessed the impact we make on the lives of community members by offering affordable dental care, hearing tests and wellness services at our WAVE Clinic. I have seen how we support families across the city by providing outstanding early childhood education, and how our nursing and personal support worker students are so motivated to enter the health care field. I have had the privilege of seeing GBC students and graduates working in Toronto’s top restaurants and performing on stage in the Nutcracker.  
What’s more, George Brown ranked among Canada’s top 10 research colleges this year, and I was excited to tour our research facilities – from the Food Innovation and Research Studio (FIRSt) to Fashion labs where researchers use specialized equipment for garment testing and development.  
Everywhere I look, faculty and staff are assisting students, so they can achieve their dreams and build their careers. This work and dedication of my colleagues is inspiring, and I am so proud to be counted as a member of the George Brown College team. 
What are you most proud of?  
Together, we have celebrated many shared achievements at George Brown this year – including again achieving the highest standing through the Ontario College Quality Assurance Audit Process (CQAAP), being voted Toronto’s best college by NOW readers, and ranking among the top 10 Canadian colleges for research activities. It has been gratifying to see the strong foundation built by George Brown employees over the years get recognized and celebrated.   
I am also very proud of the contributions we have made to community growth and vitality in neighbourhoods across Toronto, including East Bayfront and Regent Park. 
I have been pleased to be a part of forging new ground with colleagues. This year, we established several new diploma and degree programs to serve our students. One example is our new Bachelor of Business Administration (Trades Management) pathway, which enables students to ladder from diploma into degree programs. This type of programming reflects the unique role that colleges play within Ontario’s post-secondary education ecosystem. 
We also created many exciting new partnerships, such as becoming a member of the Southern Ontario Network for Advanced Manufacturing Innovation (SONAMI) and becoming a satellite for the Global Tourism Resilience and Crisis Management Centre (GTRMC). Each of these partnerships represents our broadening connections at a local and international level. Our applied research activities, work-integrated-learning and industry partnerships distinguish us as a leading polytechnic institution in Canada. We can all celebrate these accomplishments. In fact, what I am most proud of is our  achievements as a team and the contributions we make together on behalf of our students and the communities we serve. 
What were some of the most memorable moments? 
It was quite special to be a part of the announcement of the largest donation in the history of George Brown – namely, the donation of $10 million towards Limberlost Place by Mr. Jack Cockwell. I also had the pleasure of seeing this initiative come to life as construction began on our mass-timber building at the Waterfront Campus, establishing George Brown at the forefront of sustainability.   
My first Convocation ceremonies were also very special for me. I was actually nervous – it was really special and moving. Through the effort of Audrey Rochette, Director of Indigenous Initiatives, it was the first time that Indigenous traditions were directly incorporated into George Brown’s Convocation ceremonies. With this action, our community demonstrated our shared commitment to equity, inclusion and Indigenization. This commitment was also enshrined this year through the creation of our Indigenous Education Strategy, the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with the Mississaugas of the Credit First Nation, and the launch of our Anti-Racism Action Plan under the leadership of Jennifer Grant, Director of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services.  
I was also very pleased to be a part of hosting an event in honour and recognition of former President Anne Sado.  
Talking to our students about their dreams and aspirations is always special. The announcement with the City of Toronto and CreateTO of conducting a feasibility study for a new campus in the Mount Dennis community spoke to the impact George Brown can have on community development and opportunities across the city. The Board approval of our new strategic plan, Strategy 2026, developed through the leadership of colleagues across the college and with stakeholder input, was another highlight. These examples speak to the future of the college and the opportunities we can realize together – these are certainly memorable moments. 
What opportunities and challenges lie ahead for George Brown? 
My first year was punctuated by the COVID-19 pandemic, a fire at 200 King Street East prior to my start, and an evolving post-secondary education sector. These forces continue to play a role in defining our future and we have developed a new strategic plan, Strategy 2026, to assist in guiding our path forward.   
The average age of our students is 29. Over the next 10 years, we know there will be tremendous technological and process changes affecting nearly every job and creating new roles and responsibilities. Who had ever heard of Uber Eats 10 years ago, but now it is certainly influencing the shape and future of our culinary arts and restaurant industry – and this is just one example of the disruption all around us.    
Our challenge is not a decrease in demand for college education and our programs, but rather, how do we meet the growing demand for skills training to fulfill today’s jobs while preparing our graduates for tomorrow’s opportunities? 
It will be crucial that students can ladder and stack programs, with clear pathways that enable credential acquisition alongside skills and competency-based education.  
What are your plans for the coming year? 
I look forward to an exciting new year and getting to meet more of my colleagues, our students and our partners. I am proud to be a member of a team of special individuals who make a difference in the lives of our students and the communities we serve.   
I do not see myself as achieving anything alone. We accomplish our college mission – turning learning into opportunity – together through collaboration and a sense of a shared vision. As I look back over my first year, it emphasizes to me that it will take all of us to support the success of our students and communities in an evolving local and global society and economy.  
I look forward to advancing Strategy 2026 priorities together, as we make George Brown a college renowned for its inclusion, excellence, relevance, impact and leadership. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.