
As Associate Vice-President, Research and Innovation at George Brown College, Dr. Krista Holmes is accountable for the leadership, operational excellence and strategic oversight of the college's research and innovation programs. She is passionate in her commitment to advancing research and innovation through academic, industry and community partnerships and collaboration. 
Krista has over 15 years of experience working in the post-secondary education sector in a broad range of positions including administrator, faculty member, support staff and consultant. She has built her career as an educator and innovation leader around developing, delivering, managing, and evaluating programming using evidence-driven principles of continuous quality improvement. Before joining George Brown, Krista was Associate Dean of Research & Innovation at Humber College, held a variety of positions at Seneca College including faculty member in the School of English and Liberal Studies, and worked with numerous community organizations including Pathways to Education Canada and the YWCA of Greater Toronto. Krista is committed to working within an anti-oppression framework in support of equity deserving groups. 
With extensive expertise in research ethics, Krista has spent many years actively engaged in policy and advocacy initiatives to establish and maintain high quality standards for the governance and administration of research ethics provincially, nationally and internationally. She currently serves as a member of the Research Ethics Board at Michael Garron Hospital. 
Krista holds a doctorate in Leadership, Adult and Higher Education from the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education at the University of Toronto, a master’s degree in Public Policy and Administration from Carleton University and a bachelor's degree in Sociology and Global Development Studies from Queen's University. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.