
An amazing partnership between the East Waterfront Community Association (EWCA) and George Brown College helped make the 2023 winter break brighter for many students. 
Between November 24 and December 3, 2023, the EWCA collected nearly 500 pounds of shelf-stable and non-perishable goods, which were delivered to George Brown. The donations were then sorted into hampers and distributed to more than 100 students through the Student Nutrition Access Program, or SNAP, ahead of the winter break.  
The Student Association of George Brown College runs SNAP to provide nutrition, health and wellness support. 
Generous residents from nine condominiums, property management companies and others donated foods such as canned vegetables, fruit, chicken and tuna and rice, oatmeal, beans, noodles, flour and other items, including feminine hygiene products. 
“As a proud member of the East Bayfront community, George Brown College is very grateful to the East Waterfront Community Association and local MPP Chris Glover (Spadina-Fort York) for their efforts to support our students. On behalf of the college community, we extend our sincere thanks,” said Ranjit Singh, Manager of Partnership Engagement at George Brown College. “Efforts such as these are crucial as people across the Greater Toronto Area, including international students, increasingly rely on food banks to feed themselves and their families.” 
Melissa Gallo, George Brown College’s Director of Student Experience, said food insecurity is an ever-present concern for many students that can negatively affect academic success. 
"It’s hard to concentrate on coursework and studying when you’re hungry or worried about how you will pay for groceries,” she said. “We are so grateful for the care shown by our community partners, who provided nutritious pantry staples and other items to help our students. They truly demonstrated the spirit of the holiday season.” 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.