
Eduroam (education roaming) is the go-to Wi-Fi network for George Brown College employees, faculty and students. It provides fast, reliable and secure connectivity and access to college resources, including shared drives, intranet portals and more.
You can also connect using the eduroam app.
Need help? Contact GBC’s IT Help Desk at 416-415-5000 ext. 4357 (HELP) or via email at helpdesk@georgebrown.ca. Assistance with Wi-Fi is also available from the Help Desk within each Library Learning Commons (LLC) location. 
Eduroam is designed to be as user-friendly as possible. Once you log in at one participating institution, your credentials can be used at any other eduroam-enabled location. The authentication process is both secure and fast, thanks to a network of servers run by participating institutions and National Research and Education Networks (NRENs). 
Note: Each institution offering eduroam can apply its own filtering policies. You will be informed about these rules when you connect. 
Access varies based on your user profile. Generally, employees and students can connect to shared drives, intranet portals, printers and more. 
Eduroam is more than a local network—it's a global Wi-Fi service developed specifically for the international research and education community. That means you can find eduroam spots easily at participating Canadian schools, like Toronto Metropolitan University, and others around the world. 
Eduroam employs the most secure encryption and authentication standards far exceeding typical commercial hotspots. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.