
Wondering if you meet the eligibility requirements to apply for awards and scholarships? Here is a quick summary of the different criteria for eligibility.
Students who are enrolled full-time are taking a minimum 60% of the prescribed courses for their program or 40% for students with a permanent disability.
Students who are enrolled full-time are taking a minimum 20-59 % of the prescribed courses for their program.
Students who are residing in the province of Ontario for more than 12 months and have valid Canadian citizenship or Permanent residency.
Students who are residing in Canada for the purpose of education and do not have a permanent residency status.
Protected Persons are individuals who hold a valid Verification of Status document issued by Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada or a valid Protected Persons Status Document issued prior to January 1, 2013. A decision letter (“Notice of Decision”) from the Immigration and Refugee Board (IRB) is also a valid form of identification. Protected Persons can include convention refugees, humanitarian-protected persons abroad, and persons in need of protection. A person in need of protection is a person in Canada whose removal to their country of nationality or former habitual residence will make them subject to the possibility of torture, risk of life, or risk of cruel and unusual treatment or punishment. A Protected Person is defined in subsection 95(2) of the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (Canada).
Financial need is based on, but not restricted to, the following factors:
Please Note: You must have a valid Social Insurance Number (SIN) or an International Tax Number (ITN). Make sure that you have entered your Social Insurance Number (SIN) or International Tax Number (ITN) (whichever is applicable) in Stu-View, as required for tax reporting purposes. Awards, Scholarships and bursaries are considered part of a student's taxable income for the year. The College will issue a T4A form to all recipients who received an award. The T4A is issued in late February for awards, scholarships or bursaries received in the previous calendar year. You can access your T4A through Stu-View.
*Not eligible for Better Jobs Ontario Recipients (formerly known as Second Career)
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.