
To achieve a coordinated emergency response at George Brown College we conduct security audits, threat and risk assessments, Hazard Identifications and Risk Assessments (HIRA’s), and help establish college-wide emergency procedures. We also conduct full reviews of College’s Emergency Plan, manage the Emergency Operations Centres (EOC), coordinate the Emergency Response Team, establish emergency routes and areas and are implementing the Emergency Notification System (ENS).
To support emergency preparedness we promote our procedures and Public Safety Canada’s materials as part of our educational campaign for safety awareness and introduce emergency exercises.
George Brown College Emergency Preparedness is governed by our Emergency Plan (E.P.), its design is based on the protocols of the CSA Z1600 (Emergency Management and Business Continuity Standard).
As part of George Brown College’s emergency plan we are also implementing the Emergency Notification System (ENS).
An Emergency Response Team (E.R.T.) has received institutional authorization to manage all incidents and emergencies impacting our campuses. This team responds to all college emergency situations; security personnel being the first responders with the addition of First Aid and Plant personnel assisting when warranted.
For the purposes of training, and to ensure efficiency, emergency exercises are regularly conducted on all George Brown College campuses. Large or full scale training exercises are announced to the college community prior to activation in order to prevent unnecessary confusion. All  large or full scale emergency training exercises will be posted to the George Brown College home page at www.georgebrown.ca and on insite.georgebrown.ca  
To gain access to emergency procedures, please visit Emergency Procedures.
Back to Public Safety Services
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.