
Email messages often have value as corporate records and are subject to the same legislation as records created in other formats, such as the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FIPPA). A large proportion of everyday business is contained in email, and therefore should be managed and retained alongside records in other formats (paper correspondence, Word documents, etc.)It is not desirable or in fact legal, in terms of FIPPA, to keep all email messages indefinitely. Conversely, if emails that should be kept are not identified, the college could lose important information assets that form part of the college’s knowledge base. The legitimacy of email evidence is more likely to be accepted if the management of information created and received as email messages have been carried out in accordance with standardized comprehensive guidelines.
Not all email messages are worthy of retention. Examples of messages which do not have corporate value as records are:
These should be deleted or forwarded to personal e-mail accounts if required. Some records will have only a transitory value and should be kept only in the short term. While these affect college business, they do not need to be retained for business purposes in the longer term and can be deleted as soon as they are not needed regularly. Examples of short-term records include:
​These should be deleted once initial action has been taken.
Some email messages must be kept as corporate records. If a message contains both personal and corporate information, the message should be considered to have corporate value.​​​​​Examples of emails with value as corporate records can include:
The retention period for email messages in this category is the same as with paper/hard copy records. Storage and Filing of “Record” Emails
Emails which are records, or which are necessary to be shared with colleagues, should be filed alongside other documents in their business context. Therefore, if the main file is paper-based, then relevant emails should be printed and added to it. If the main file is on a shared server area, emails should be saved to that area. If the main documents of an activity are solely emails, then they may be retained in the Outlook system.
Printing “record” emails are useful when working files need all information to be kept together, or when emails need to be kept in the longer term (5 years plus).
If using this method, then ensure the following descriptive information is printed without alteration:
Short-Term Emails
It should be possible to keep very short-term emails in your inbox and delete them immediately after action without filing them. Emails Kept for Personal Reference
It is very important to set aside time to manage and delete your email. Ideally, your inbox and sent items should both be reviewed daily and actioned emails deleted or moved to a folder. This prevents the development of backlogs which are time-consuming and difficult to deal with.
 
If you have any questions, please get in touch with our Archivist, Clay Thibodeau:
Tel: (416) 415-5000 Ext. 4771Fax: 416-415-4772 E-mail: cthibodeau@georgebrown.ca
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.