
Big plans need bold ideas. Learn more and share your ideas about George Brown College’s Campus Master Plan by stopping by the Winter service fairs to meet the Campus Planning team from January 23 – 25.
Employees and students are welcome to drop in to learn more about the size and scope of the project, how we plan to develop future space, and share their thoughts about the future of George Brown. 
Right now, the Campus Planning team from Facilities and Sustainability is developing a new Campus Master Plan — a plan that defines major decisions about our built environment and learning and working spaces. The last Campus Master Plan, released in 2014, led to significant changes, including the Waterfront Campus expansion and our first student residence.  
The final Campus Master Plan will be released in October 2024, and we hope the entire college community will be part of this important work. We want to hear your feedback on our built environment and what’s important to consider as we evaluate current and future needs. 
Want to share your thoughts about how GBC grows its physical footprint and strengthens its connections to the surrounding city? Now's your chance! 
Students and employees are invited to connect with the Campus Master Plan project team at the winter semester service fairs:  
"We are very excited to hear from our amazing students and colleagues on the future of our learning and working spaces at GBC. The Facilities and Sustainability team wants to learn about your challenges, hopes, and ideas when it comes to our physical spaces and how those spaces can best support our learning community," said Michelle McCollum, Vice-President of Facilities and Sustainability.
"This is a great chance to get involved and impact the college's growth over the next three decades." 
Save the date for the next Campus Master Plan consultation event. 
The first public Open House happens during the evening of February 22, 2024. Stay tuned for more details. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.