
The records that the college generates and receives in the course of its work are collectively a vital and unique source of:
However, not all records have the same value, and all records are expensive to maintain. It is obviously important to retain those which are required to meet:
It is equally important to dispose of those which are not needed, to improve efficiency and to minimize the overall costs of maintaining and managing records. This applies particularly to transitory records, which have only temporary value and should be routinely destroyed in the normal course of business.
Records are documents or other items which:
The recorded information may be in any form (e.g. text, image, sound) and the records may be in any medium or format.
Transitory records are records which have only temporary value. They are produced:
They are NOT official copies of records that need to be retained as evidence of an activity and they have no significant informational value after they have served their primary purpose.
It is important not to assume ...
These are some common types of transitory records:
*Note: The departments where these items originate should retain the official records and maintain them in formal recordkeeping systems, in line with institutional records management policies. For example, ‘master’ copies of publications produced by the college are not transitory records and they should be retained by the department responsible for their publication. Other copies distributed within the institution are duplicates and are therefore transitory records.
These categories are not intended to be prescriptive or exhaustive. There will always be exceptions where records could appear to be transitory but, because of the way they are used or because of individual circumstances, they should be retained as official records and maintained in a formal recordkeeping system.
Transitory records should be stored wherever they are most readily accessible. They should not be transferred to Archives. They should be retained only as long as they are actively used or referred to; they should then be destroyed. They should not be retained as a substitute for, or as a supplement to, official records maintained in a formal recordkeeping system. For example, local copies of purchase orders and invoices should not be retained for longer than the official records held by Financial Services.
As these records are used in the daily business of the college, these records will contain information that should be destroyed securely through Archives. See George Brown Shredding Procedure.
If you have any questions, please get in touch with our Archivist, Clay Thibodeau:
Tel: (416) 415-5000, Ext. 4771Fax: 416-415-4772E-mail: cthibodeau@georgebrown.ca
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.