
We want to make sure you feel equipped to support students’ mental health, as well as your own. Please view our FAQ below and see how you can get in touch if you need it. To learn useful tips for fostering well–being in the classroom from other GBC professors, please visit the Faculty Connect Page
No referral is necessary; students located in Ontario can book an appointment through our counselling student portal, by emailing, calling, or visiting one of our locations during business hours
If you are wanting to support a student in distress who may potentially have non-emergency safety concerns you can provide them with  24-7 crisis supports in the community and (if the student is in agreement) send an email to letstalk@georgebrown.ca to request an urgent reach out from GBC Counselling and Wellbeing Services to the student. Please note that although we do reserve a daily urgent reach out appointment spot, there may be a 1 -3 business day wait to access one of these counselling spaces depending on current student need/counselling staff capacity. We do not recommend this for students who need immediate assistance.
If you have concerns about a student’s immediate safety on campus contact Public Safety and Security. For students off campus with emergency safety concerns, direct them to emergency services. If students are outside of Canada, again direct them to their local emergency services. We Connect (available through the student health insurance plan) offers 24/7 multi-lingual counselling and crisis support and can help students connect with local services regardless of global location. In North America students can call the WeConnect Intake line (1-888-377-0002) to initiate services. The phone number which can be used from outside of North America is: 289-301-2580.
For students who are traveling overseas for a GBC field placement and require crisis or emergency services, International SOS (ISOS) can connect them with local services through the ISOS app. You can also contact the GBC Emergency line at 416-415-4000 to get support for the student. Please refer to the package provided by the Global Partnerships Office for more information regarding how to access these services and what to do in an emergency.
Visit the Employee and Family Assistance Program
We have an entire page dedicated to external supports for students.
Visit Student Supports
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.