
Endowed funds are never spent: they are invested. It is the earnings from these investments that go to help the programs you choose to support. That means each gift designated for endowment provides permanent financial support for the College.
Naming an endowed fund for a person or organization you wish to honour is a meaningful and long-lasting way to leave a legacy.
The funds generated from the interest on endowment investments are generally used for a specific and designated purpose. It is possible to top up or build on existing endowments whenever you wish. If you have a question about making a gift to an existing endowment, please contact us at 416-415-5000 ext. 3721.
An endowment is a cash donation with the stipulation that it be invested and the principal remains intact in perpetuity. Your gift of $20,000 or more can establish a named scholarship and you will receive a tax receipt for the full amount of your endowment fund contribution.
George Brown College awards annual scholarships from the interest generated by endowed gifts. Endowments can be directed towards particular programs or student groups, as designated by the donor and the Foundation.
Endowments can be named in recognition of you, or you may choose to name your endowment in honour or in memory of a family member, colleague or friend.
When you establish an endowment, the criteria for disbursement will be developed in consultation with the Foundation. The criteria reflect the nature of the scholarship, however, we ask donors to keep such criteria general to ensure a scholarship can be presented each year. George Brown faculty members then select student award recipients based on your criteria.
Please view a complete list of endowed scholarships.
For more information about setting up an endowment fund, please contact:
Gabriella GoutamDevelopment Officer, Annual GivingGeorge Brown College FoundationPhone: 416-415-5000 x3289Fax: 416-415-5011Email: gabriella.goutam@georgebrown.ca 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.