
A crucial part of anti-racism work is engagement. Strides and transformative change can only occur if we engage with each other to identify the effects of racism. Four tools have been provided to support your engagement in anti-racism practice. This is how we get started:
This toolkit aims to support leaders in starting the dialogue, exploring their role in creating an anti-racist institution, and deepening their understanding of what it means to be an anti-racist leader.
It includes books, web resources, podcasts, videos/movies, articles and GBC resources.
One way to actively engage with this work is through conversation. The tool: 11 Tips for Having Inclusive and Racially Responsive Conversations is a resource that supports creating space to explore listen and have meaningful dialogue about race, racism, and anti-racism.
The second tool, Exploring Unit Readiness, is a tool that can be completed individually or as a group, formally or informally. This tool provides individuals, teams or units with the opportunity to evaluate where they are situated in relation to addressing racial inequities. The tool also creates an opening for team discussion and exploration of the current state as well as a benchmark for progress.
The third tool, the Anti-Racism Action Planning Template, supports units in planning specific goals and actions to advance anti-racism within teams and units. The Anti-Racism Action Planning Template guides teams in developing goals that are aligned with organizational strategic priorities by way of asking the right questions, creating milestones/steps, outlining individual and group responsibilities and identifying indicators of success for the work that has been planned.
The Canada Suicide Prevention Service was built as an equitable, accessible service, there to support anyone in need living anywhere in Canada. The CSPS helpline will always be guided by principles of inclusion, stakeholder engagement and accessibility.
Toll-free phone support is available in French and English at 1-833-456-4566.
Text message support is available in English from 4:00 pm to 12:00 am Eastern at 45645, standard messaging rates according to your phone carrier contract may apply.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.