
We offer flexible program options including full-time and part-time courses. The School of English as a Second Language provides many opportunities for you to pursue your English language and post-secondary goals. Studying at George Brown's downtown campus allows you to experience one of Canada's most vibrant cities. Our student support team will help you become part of the college whether you are studying online or in the classroom in Toronto.​
Our English for Academic Purposes Program can help you improve your English and prepare for post-secondary study and future employment. In addition to your studies, you'll get a true Canadian college experience through various student life events and activities.
With our part-time programs, we have different options depending on your English language needs. If you're looking to improve your English for personal, professional, and academic purposes, or to eliminate the need for English admissions assessments for further study at George Brown, we can help!
Newcomers can develop the language and communication skills needed for their specific occupation and sector. This training is offered for free for newcomers in Ontario. 
Approximately 70% of our School of English as a Second Language graduates go on to a diploma or degree program at George Brown College. During your time here, you'll:
The School of English as a Second Language is committed to provide you with learning that fits your needs and schedule. Students can choose from the following options:​
*Based on Toronto Public Health guidelines and restrictions​
To personalize your learning experience, students can participate in extracurricular workshops. Some topics** include:​
**Workshop topics may change based on availability and demand. ​
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.