
Important transformations are unfolding at George Brown College (GBC) as we pursue the goals outlined in our Anti-Racism Action Plan. This dynamic plan guides the crucial steps we take to create opportunities for education, self-reflection, and accountability—all aimed at addressing racism and advancing anti-racism at the college.
With the leadership of the Office of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services (OAREHRS), GBC made important strides in the first year (2022/23) of the two-year action plan. Find an update on progress made on the Anti-Racism Action Plan below. 
Anti-Racism Action Plan Update
The initiatives, put in place since the plan's launch in March 2022, promote continuous learning and growth among students and employees and move us closer to realizing our shared vision of a more anti-racist, equitable and inclusive GBC. 
Highlights of these actions include the following: 
“Achieving the goals outlined in the Anti-Racism Action Plan depends on everyone at George Brown College learning new ways of approaching their work while committing to change at both an individual and institutional level. Transforming our college into a place where each of us feels a sense of belonging is and always will be a collective effort,” said Jennifer Grant, Associate Vice-President of GBC’s Office of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services. 
“I want to thank faculty, staff, departments, divisions and senior leadership, who have collaborated and consulted with the OAREHRS to advance this work. I am also grateful to those who have engaged with OAREHRS learning resources, activities and events and continue to ask for more! It is also important to acknowledge those who have quietly and without fanfare, just done the work. This collective engagement is what has led to the successful deliverables in the first year of the plan.”  
GBC has accomplished so much within the first year of the Anti-Racism Action Plan. We have unlearned and learned together, engaged in new approaches and begun to examine our practices and policies to ensure they align with our values and commitments to indigenization, anti-racism, diversity, equity and inclusion. Over the next year, we will continue to challenge ourselves to do more to advance the goals in the plan and hold ourselves and each other accountable to our promise, as laid out in Strategy 2026, to “build a culture of equity, reconciliation and belonging” at GBC.     
For more details, visit georgebrown.ca/anti-racism-action-plan-progress. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.