
Your professional path starts here
Get sector-specific experience, build your network and explore your potential.
Experiential learning is an umbrella term used to cover all opportunities available to students to participate in sector-specific learning experiences.
These opportunities can take place in a variety of settings on campus or off campus. The following are examples of the types of experiential learning you can expect at George Brown College:
Work-integrated learning is a type of experiential learning that combines a student’s academic studies with experiential learning in a workplace or practice setting. It generally involves a student, the college, and a host organization. Examples of WIL include:
All our career-focused programs include at least one experiential learning opportunity to develop practical sector-specific skills. These opportunities improve your understanding of industry expectations so you can hit the ground running when you enter the workforce.
Find out how to get involved.
Current students Employers
“If I didn’t have this opportunity, I think I’d still be looking for work. I graduated from university in 2018, and it took me until this work-integrated learning opportunity to find any work in the field. This definitely gave me what I needed.” -Artem Naida, Information Systems Business Analysis graduate, 2020
"The GBC students really stood out. They were energized, inquisitive and professional and experimented with multiple tools and different approaches. ... The students were timely and delivered the work products as instructed, sometimes going well above and beyond." -Robert Crooks, CEO and Founder, Soteria120
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.