
Experiential Learning is an umbrella term used to cover all opportunities available to students to take part in sector-specific learning experiences. These opportunities can take place in a variety of settings including workplaces, simulation facilities, labs, shops, and studios in both educational, workplace and practice environments. This is a chance for students to build meaningful experience in their field or industry. 
The Centre for Arts, Design & Information Technology has options for you depending on your program of study.  
At the School of Computer Technology, the following programs have an experiential learning component which includes the option of either Co-op Work Placement or Work-Integrated Project: 
All students must register for the Work-Integrated Project course in Semester 3 through Stu-View. Students who secure an academic aligned co-op position will then be transferred to Co-op Work Placement once the work term is processed by the Field Education Office. 
All students are expected to conduct a self-directed co-op search based on the following criteria:  
Students who have a cumulative GPA of 3.3 or higher by the end of Semester 1 and receive a minimum B+ on the cover letter and resume assignment in the Career Planning and Portfolio Development course in Semester 2 will have access to pre-approved co-op jobs on GBCareers.
*Jobs that do not align with the academic program outcomes will not be able to qualify for co-op credit. Positions may be flagged by the Field Education Office for further review.  Unsure a job posting is aligned to your academic program? Email the job description to Field.EducationSCT@georgebrown.ca.  
International students are responsible for entering the co-op placement with a valid co-op work permit for the duration of their 15-week, curriculum-based work term.  
It is important to note that the co-op work permit is no longer valid after the final day of Semester 3. Please contact Mariana Razzak (Mariana.Razzak@georgebrown.ca), International Student Advisor, to discuss employment opportunities that extend beyond Semester 3. 
Step 1: Attend an Experiential Learning presentation that will be hosted in Semester 1 during scheduled class time. The Field Education Office will provide presentation dates and times via email. 
Step 2: Attend the Career Planning and Portfolio Development course in Semester 2 to ensure application materials (such as cover letters and resumes) are up to industry standards. 
Step 3: Apply for jobs through a self-directed search and/or GBCareers.
Step 4: Once a student has secured a co-op position, complete the following steps: 
Step 5: Students will gain access to their co-op course and must complete and submit the following items on Brightspace:
To defer the Co-op or Work-Integrated Project course, please contact ComputerTechnology@georgebrown.ca 
Week 1: Last week to leave a Work Integrated Project for a Co-op Work Placement. 
If students receive a co-op offer after Week 1, they may be required to maintain their Work-Integrated Project commitment in addition to completing their Co-op Work Placement. Students should consult their program coordinator before accepting a position after Week 1.  
Week 5: Last week to request to be registered for a Co-op Work Placement. 
Students who are qualified to access the program aligned co-op opportunities on GBCareers must accept the Terms & Conditions on the platform to access and apply for roles.
If you have any questions or require any information in an alternative format, contact the Field Education Office at Field.EducationSCT@georgebrown.ca
At the School of Design, the following programs have a mandatory field placement:
The following programs have an optional field placement:
Please refer to the School of Design Field Education Workflow page to look up your program of study to see the steps to follow to successfully secure and register for a field placement.
Prior learning assessment & recognition (PLAR) is a process that gives you the opportunity to obtain academic credit for your field placement, internship, or co-op course. The prior experience must be aligned to your academic program/learning outcomes listed on the official program page. Students must complete the minimum required hours prior to applying to PLAR. Hours by program requirements are as follows:
Learn more about PLAR and how to apply.
The School of Design offers a free workshop to help you develop your resume, cover letter, and portfolio. This workshop is hosted annually in August to provide students who plan to participate in Field Education the opportunity to get ahead with developing your application package. Participation is highly encouraged as employers may start their co-op/internship recruitment for the Winter semester (January – April) as early as September. Information regarding the workshop will be emailed to all students at the School of Design in June/July of each year.
At the School of Fashion & Jewellery, the following programs have a mandatory field placement:
The following programs have an optional field placement:
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.