
Collaborate with George Brown and our students through work-integrated learning (WIL) opportunities. Gain fresh perspectives from our students, who can help you solve business challenges and complete projects.
Our partners play an important role in experiential learning at George Brown. Whether it’s through offering work opportunities or mentorship and advice, they help prepare our graduates. By partnering with George Brown and our students, you will: 
Contact the Work Integrated Learning Office by email at wil@georgebrown.ca or by phone at (416) 415-5000, ext. 3956. 
Contact us
 
Learn about the areas of the college you can work with below. See an option that's a good fit for your organization? Then, connect with our Work-Integrated Learning Office to take the next step.
With more than 200 full-time programs across seven academic centres, we can match students with your organization to help move projects forward and complete goals. 
We use an online platform called Riipen to match our students with employers across Canada. Find out how to connect with our students through Riipen’s Level UP program.
Have a business idea you want to get off the ground? Our faculty and students can help. Research and Innovation activities happen across the college and give students opportunities to solve challenges facing small and medium-sized businesses. 
At GBC's new Brookfield Sustainability Institute (BSI), we'll work with businesses, government and others to develop solutions to challenges created by climate change. BSI will soon offer experiential and WIL opportunities for students across the college. Stay tuned!  
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.