
Experiential Learning is an umbrella term used to cover all of the opportunities available to students to take part in sector-specific learning experiences. These opportunities can take place in a variety of settings including workplaces, simulation facilities, labs, shops, and studios in both educational, workplace and practice environments. They are a chance for students to experience their field or industry and learn what’s expected of them before graduating.
The Centre for Business has many options for you. Work Integrated Learning — co-op or internships, Consulting Work Term, and the Field Education course are three options available.  In addition to connecting students with employers, we also provide opportunities to participate in competitions, join business organizations, attend industry functions and events and learn from expert guest speakers.
If you are an employer please visit Work Experience Resources for Employers.
Co-op or Internships are both paid and unpaid opportunities that offers students the opportunity to apply their classroom learning on-the-job, giving them practical experience and further developing their skills.
Act as trusted to advisor to a real-world client.  Engage in strategy, work with a team and gain valuable experience as a junior consultant. Supported by a senior consultant (faculty), students will have a significant opportunity to test their skills and develop new ones.
Diploma students may work for an employer in a preapproved job related to their program of study to earn a business elective credit. They are evaluated against agreed objectives determined in advance by the employer and the faculty.
Class project may include developing a marketing plan for an organization, creating an online social media strategy or planning and execution of new apps.
Centre for Business students have the opportunity to participate in applied research initiatives through the research and innovation office.
Students work on field projects for clients in support of data-driven business decisions. Students analyze data using the latest tools and technologies, interact with clients, and gather feedback in order to make meaningful business recommendations.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.