
It’s easy to add experiential learning opportunities to your course or program. The Work-Integrated Learning Office can get you started.
Create a smooth transition from the classroom to the workplace by connecting students and employers through experiential learning opportunities.  
Teaching and Learning Exchange 
GBCommunity – Teaching/Instructional resources 
Experiential Learning 
Contact the Work Integrated Learning Office by email at wil@georgebrown.ca or by phone at (416) 415-5000, ext. 3956. 
Learn about the areas of the college you can work with below. See an option that's a good fit for your program? Then, contact the Work-Integrated Learning Office to take the next step. 
Connect with employers who can host students for field experience, field placements, co-ops and more. 
Connect your students with international WIL opportunities. Global experience will help set them apart in the workforce and provide an adventure they’ll never forget! 
We use an online platform called Riipen to match our students with employers across Canada. Find out how to connect with our students through Riipen’s Level UP program.
Do you have a student with a business idea they can explore? Connect them to our entrepreneurial hub, startGBC. 
Research and Innovation activities happen across the college and give students opportunities to solve challenges facing small and medium-sized businesses. 
The new Brookfield Sustainability Institute (BSI) works with businesses, government and others to develop solutions to challenges created by climate change. BSI will soon offer experiential and WIL opportunities for students across the college. Stay tuned! 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.