
Apply your classroom learning to solve real-world challenges. Find out how to get a work-integrated learning opportunity. 
With a huge range of industry partners looking for George Brown College students, we have a work-integrated learning (WIL) opportunity right for you.  
Academic divisions have different processes to support students with finding and securing WIL opportunities.
The first place to start is by contacting your industry liaison team.
In addition to connecting you with employers, we also offer students opportunities to participate in competitions, attend industry functions and events and learn from guest speakers.
 
Find centre-specific WIL details below.
Visit the Centre for Arts, Design and Information Technology's Experiential Learning page for more information.
Visit the Centre for Business Experiential Learning page for more information.
Find school-specific information on industry partnerships and field placements below:
Visit the Centre for Construction and Engineering Technologies' Industry Liaison Office page for more information.
Find school-specific information on industry partnerships and clinical and field placements below:
Find school-specific information on industry partnerships and field placements below:
Visit the Centre for Preparatory and Liberal Studies' The Industry page for more information.
GBC offers many options for students to gain hands-on, practical experience. Students can work with industry partners at a workplace, on campus or online.
Check out our options below, and remember, your industry liaison team will advise on securing a WIL experience.
George Brown College's online job board features postings from more than 2,500 organizations.
 
Students can participate in research and innovation activities that happen in academic divisions across GBC. These activities provide the opportunity to help solve real-world challenges facing small and medium-size businesses.
Riipen is an online platform that matches students with employers across Canada. We use Riipen to enhance experiential learning in the classroom and to find virtual work placements for students. 
 
Got a great business idea? Our entrepreneurship hub, startGBC, can connect you to resources, mentors and other opportunities to help you get that idea off the ground. 
At GBC's new Brookfield Sustainability Institute (BSI), we'll work with businesses, government and others to develop solutions to challenges created by climate change. BSI will soon offer experiential and WIL opportunities for students across the college. Stay tuned!
Gain valuable global experience by completing an international work-integrated learning experience.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.