
This tool provides individuals and teams of units (departments and divisions) with the opportunity to think about their readiness to engage in racial equity (anti-racism) work.
The assessment is a checklist of features that characterize units, departments, or institutions at different “places in terms of how they focus on racial equity. It provides a starting place for how to do more in advancing anti-racism work".
Anyone can use this tool at any time. However, it is best when used in groups (informally or formally). It can open up conversations about what steps can be taken towards moving your unit on anti-racism efforts and can be used to continue to benchmark progress towards advancing your unit’s work in equity, diversity and inclusion.
In each section, please check all items that describe your unit, and total the checkmarks as directed.
My unit:
In Section A, I checked ____ boxes.
My unit:
In Section B, I checked ____ boxes.
My unit:
In Section C, I checked ____ boxes.
My unit:
In Section D, I checked ___ boxes.
In which section were the most boxes checked? Discuss with your group your thoughts about our results.
At the end of the continuum is a "place" that is "colour-blind," either by design or by default. That is, the organization tends to think that what's good for "everyone" will necessarily be good for people of colour. Thus, it does not lift up issues of equality, diversity, and inclusion in any regular or routine way.
Further, it may even take up the position that paying attention to racial/ethnic diversity or disparities diverts attention away from shared concerns. For example, the "All Lives Matter" notion when inserted into a "Black Lives Matter" conversation or when someone says "reverse racism."
When organizations have decided, with deliberate emphasis, to focus on diversity (but diversity-only), recognizing that it offers value to the workplace/space and the work/environment. This "place" is not attuned to equity and may not even be active around issues of inclusion.
Organizations in this place may feel either a) doing the work of creating diversity will allow other goals to fall in place, or b) doing the work of diversity is itself labour-intensive, not really allowing space to work on issues of race. For example, when people dismiss diversity as not being a "black and white" issue or race issue when human resource policy says to recruit for diversity within the staff, but do not create an environment to support that diverse staff.
Those organizations that find data showing racial disparities troubling, know something needs to be done, and yet are not sure how to act systemically on that concern.
They may take a step or two in the way of funding or outreach or hiring a person responsible for diversity and inclusion.
They may also recognize that their own staff and board are not diverse but presume the slow turnover of staff and board members dictate slow change. For example, "We just don't know what to do, but we don't want to get it wrong."
The right end of the continuum is a racial equity approach, one which characterizes the most race-intentional organizations. This "place" recognizes that virtually all programmatic and operations functions must be culturally competent, race-informed, and anti-oppressive in order to advance the overall organizational mission. For example, elimination of disparities, closing the achievement gap, addressing health inequities, focusing on issues of social justice, etc.
Adapted from the Annie E. Casey Foundation
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.