
As a member of the border post-secondary community located within the City of Toronto and the province of Ontario, the George Brown College Government Relations team works with partner organizations to achieve common goals.
Colleges and Institutes Canada (CICAN) is the national and international voice of Canada’s largest post-secondary education network. Their work supports Canada’s publicly supported colleges, institutes, CEGEPs, and polytechnics. When the system thrives, Canadians thrive. In everything we do, we aim to strength that system.
Colleges Ontario (CO) is the association representing the province’s 24 public colleges. The association promotes the colleges’ pivotal role in strengthening the economy by producing graduates with the professional qualifications and expertise to succeed in rewarding careers. Colleges Ontario champions policy measures to strengthen the quality of programs available to students and implements provincewide marketing and communications campaigns to promote the full range of programs offered to students. Colleges Ontario also organizes the annual Higher Education Summit, one of North America’s premier conference on post-secondary education. This annual event includes the Premier’s Awards gala for outstanding college graduates.
The Ontario Chamber of Commerce (OCC) is the indispensable partner of business and Canada’s largest, most influential provincial chamber. It is an independent, non-profit advocacy and member services organization. The OCC has 60,000 members, including large multinational corporations, small-to-medium-sized enterprises, labour unions, postsecondary institutions, non-profits, associations and close to 160 chambers of commerce and boards of trade. The OCC’s mission is to convene, align and advance the interests of its members through principled policy work, value-added business services and broad engagement to drive competitiveness and economic growth in the province.
Polytechnics Canada is a non-profit association representing 13 leading research-intensive, publicly supported polytechnics, colleges and institutes of technology.  We advocate for federal action where the interests of our members overlap with those of federal departments and agencies. Among the areas where polytechnic education offers impactful solutions, we focus on Research & Innovation, Skills & Talent, and Diversity & Inclusion.  These priorities speak to intersecting interest on topics such as applied research, career-relevant training, Indigenous teaching and learning, international education and upskilling/reskilling. Recognizing that few Canadians understand the differentiated value of a polytechnic model of education, we also work to raise the profile of applied, industry-focused education.  Articles and other publications showcase the impact of our members across sectors and across Canada.
Toronto Region Board of Trade: The Toronto Region Board of Trade connects businesses to the programs, partners and people they need to succeed – today and tomorrow.  They help businesses and organizations build relationships with thousands of other business members, peers, mentors and potential partners, access tools and programs to help them grow both locally and internationally and communicate challenges and opportunities to government and policy decision makers.
Representing businesses along the Queens Quay corridor between Bathurst and Cherry St, the Waterfront Business Improvement Area (BIA) is the business community’s voice and the unifying entity to Toronto’s Waterfront. The Waterfront BIA is the unifying entity for local businesses and stakeholders. We’re always looking for ways to connect, collaborate to ensure our business community is on the path to growth and success.
Waterfront Toronto came together in 2001 to tackle big issues along the waterfront that only collaboration across all three levels of government could solve. With the backing of federal, provincial and municipal governments we overcome the  barriers to revitalization so that Toronto can take its place among the world's top waterfronts. By  listening to the public voice, we’re delivering a distinct and vivid vision for a vibrant and sustainable waterfront. Working with partners, from property developers to conservationists and community groups, we are creating conditions for next-generation job creation while improving the ecological health of the waterfront.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.