
Many external awards, scholarships, and bursaries are available through other organizations. These types of award resources (known as external awards) are set aside for very specific candidates (based on demographics such as ethnicity, parent's occupation, hometown, etc.).
We encourage you to review the awards below to see if you meet the eligibility requirements and to see how to apply.
Did you know that there are several sites dedicated to finding external awards? You can check out the following sites to see if you may be a match!
This bursary is awarded annually to two chosen candidates who identify as female and living with epilepsy to be used towards furthering their education and/or their career; whether that be in a full-time or part-time program, workshop, extra-curricular class or pursuing a career goal.
Are you a post-secondary student pursuing a future career in the environmental or cultural heritage sectors? The B. Harper Bull Scholarship Awards are here to support you. To qualify, students must:
The BCF Scholarships Program provides scholarships to youth of Barbadian heritage pursuing post-secondary education at Canadian universities and colleges. A total of 91 Scholarships valued at $286,000 have been granted to date, Including scholarships granted by Barbados Ball Canada Aid (now Barbados Canada Association) before Barbados Canada Foundation (BCF) assumed management of the scholarships program.  
Scholarships available are for $4000 each and include:
Application: Please visit Barbados Canada Foundation website to submit the application
Application deadline: June 16, 2023
Application guidelines
Criteria: Awarded to a student who identifies as part of the LGBTTTQ community, who is in financial need and who is an Ontario resident.
Criteria: Awarded to aboriginal students in full-time post-secondary studies who took at least 12 months off from education prior to returning (mature students) and who have completed at least one academic year of a multi-year program based on an application package and letters of reference.
To honour the legacies of those who lost their lives in the PS752 flight disaster, Global Affairs Canada will be offering 176 scholarships to Canadian and international college and university students.
Among these victims were brilliant minds and dedicated students, faculty, and professionals in a variety of sectors who made significant contributions to Canadian educational institutions.
A total of 176 scholarships will be awarded over five years beginning the academic year 2023-2024. The average value of each scholarship will be $25,000. A minimum of 70% of the scholarships are to be granted to international students, reflecting the percentage of international on flight PS752. Family members of the victims of flight PS752 will be prioritized.
We know that over 3,500 Iranians study in colleges and institutes in Canada. Please note that students do not need to be Iranian, but the connections may be easier to establish for them.
Applicants will be asked to outline their reason for applying for the scholarship, their understanding and awareness of the tragedy, why they feel a connection with the victims, and how they will use the scholarship to honour the legacies of victims of flight PS752. Connections could involve a family member, a related field of study (aviation, healthcare), among others.
To apply, please visit: Flight PS752 Commemorative Scholarship Program (international.gc.ca)
Application deadline: October 31, 2023
Criteria: are eligible or serving or former serving members and their dependents of Canadian Forces when warranted by Financial need.
Criteria: Awarded to a student who lives in a CHFT member co-operative and is entering his or her first year of college, based on financial need and a positive contribution to his or her school and/or community.
Criteria: Awarded to full-time hard-of-hearing or deafened student based on academic achievement, community involvement, and the determination to cope with hearing loss.
Criteria: Scholarship applications are open to full-time students demonstrating both financial need and the potential to succeed in their program of study. Applicants must be or have been a current Crown (permanent) Ward, be under 26 at the start of their current school program, or under 30 if the student has received CAF funding for the same program in previous years.
The CICan Paul and Gerri Charette Bursary Program provides financial support to students who demonstrate financial need and often face greater challenges and barriers to participate and complete post-secondary education.
EligibilityNote: This must be the first time that the student will be attending a post-secondary institution.
Criteria:
For more information, please visit www.clwalkerton.org
Criteria: Awarded to a permanent resident of Bruce or Grey County who demonstrates a commitment to stronger and more inclusive communities.
Criteria: Awarded to a post-secondary student who has completed at least two semesters of full-time studies (minimum 60% course load per semester) at a recognized post-secondary institution in Canada. Candidates must demonstrate outstanding academic records and active community involvement in a leadership role.
Criteria: Awarded to an outstanding student who studies at a recognized high school or post-secondary institution in Canada. He/She must also have played an active and leading role in a uniquely meaningful project or initiative in relation to community or social development, humanitarian improvement, environment, social justice or other issues.
Criteria: Post-secondary students who have maintained a minimum average of 80%, demonstrated social responsibility as well as a determination to pursue academic excellence, and show a financial need.
The purpose of the CSA Group Undergraduate Research Scholarship is to support undergraduate students in the pursuit of novel research related to standards. The research is to be conducted over a summer term under the direct supervision of an academic advisor.
Research Details:The research can be conducted in any field (e.g., engineering, social sciences, health sciences) and must include standards as a central component of the research. The research may investigate aspects of an existing standard or may explore an area for future standards development. The topic does not need to be related to an area where CSA Group already has standards.
Award:
Application details:Deadline to Apply: January 31, 2024Notice of Award: March 15, 2024Award Acceptance: April 1, 2024
Eligibility:Students must be enrolled in their second year or higher for full time studies in a degree program at the undergraduate level at an accredited Canadian university or college;
How to Apply:Students must submit the following on the CSA submission portal by the deadline:
Application instructions can be found on the CSA Group Undergraduate Research Scholarship webpage
Terms of Award:
Note: CSA Group will provide access to CSA standards, as needed, for the project.For more information please visit the CSA website.
Criteria: Awarded to a student with Spina Bifida and/or Hydrocephalus based on his or her motivation, goal setting, self-awareness, and potential for success.
Criteria: Electro-Federation Canada offers a wide array of scholarship opportunities with diverse criteria. Please search through the brochure on the website or visit the Students Awards Office for detailed criteria and application instructions.
Criteria: Provided to a student with cerebral palsy who is a current Lifetime Member of OFCP and who is enrolled in an Ontario College or University, and who has completed his or her first year of instruction at University or College. Enrolment in programs that will lead to working with individuals with disabilities will be an asset.For more information, please visit the OFP funding page.
As part of our Youth Education Program, EDC provides up to 20 scholarships a year to international business post-secondary students at Canadian universities and colleges, and 7 scholarships to post-secondary students representing the next generation of community champions from a diversity of backgrounds.
Award:
Application details:Deadline to Apply: March 1, 2024
Eligibility:
How to Apply:
Note:
For more information please visit the EDC website.
Criteria: Awarded to students of Portuguese descent based on academic merit.
Criteria: The scholarships are open to matriculating; currently enrolled UG; Graduate students worldwide. All majors are welcome to apply.
Criteria: Awarded to students under 25 years of age who are members or the children of members of the Foresters organization, based on academic performance, community involvement and the assessment of an essay.
Contract Mint is offering a $1000 scholarship to students who are interested in freelancing. This award is open to high school, college and university students with a minimum 3.0 GPA. Applicants must submit an essay answering "What is your #1 advice to future freelancers?"
Criteria: Awarded to a 16 to 24-year-old student who is graduating high school based on financial need and outstanding citizenship.
To be eligible to apply for the Horatio Alger Canadian Scholarship, applicants must meet the following criteria:
Entrance Criteria: Awarded to a student with a Caribbean / African background who demonstrated remarkable academic achievement or progress through high school while being involved in the community or high school. Recipient must have financial need.
Criteria: The scholarship is open to emerging creative talent from across Canada wanting to enter the advertising industry. Entrants must be non-professional Canadian residents over the age of 16. All fields of creativity related to the advertising community will be considered (e.g. writers, art directors, filmmakers, recording artists, illustrators, digital artists, etc.). A minimum of $5000 will be awarded to the winner.
Job-Applications.ca is providing an annual scholarship for working parents in Canada who are pursuing post-secondary education. Applicant must be enrolled as a full-time or part-time student at an accredited Canadian post-secondary institution with a GPA of 3.0 or higher. They are also required to submit a 600-1000 word essay discussing experiences as a parent working their way through school and explain three pieces of advice that would be given to someone in a similar situation.
Criteria: Awarded to a student who is a Canadian citizen or landed immigrant and is enrolled full-time in a secondary institution and shows financial need.
Knowledge First Financial, a leading Registered Education Savings Plan (RESP) provider in Canada, is pleased to announce the availability of ten (10) scholarships for students who are continuing their academic journey at the graduate level.Criteria: To be eligible for any of the ten scholarships, applicants must be:
*Additional requirement for Knowledge First Financial student beneficiaries:
For more information, please visit: https://knowledge-first-financial.scholarshipscanada.com
Criteria: Awarded to a 16 to 25-year-old student who has been nominated by either their high school or by a community organization for demonstrating exemplary leadership in eliminating racial discrimination.
Criteria: Awarded to a student with Spina Bifida and/or Hydrocephalus who is a permanent resident of the Windsor district based on academic merit and financial need.
Criteria:Students currently enrolled in or have been accepted to a college, university or trade school within Canada and:
Application: Visit the Manulife website to submit your application
moneyGenius (a WeyMedia Inc. business) proudly announces its 4th annual scholarship available to Canadian students enrolled in full-time undergraduate or graduate studies.
They have created two $2,000 scholarships and are looking for a student dedicated to academic excellence, no matter what field of study they’re enrolled in.
The chosen student will be awarded CA$2,000 which may be used towards the cost of their studies, helping them get a head start on their personal finance journey as young adults.
Eligibility:
To apply please visit: $2,000 moneyGenius scholarship, and $2,000 creditcardGenius scholarship
Application Deadline Date: October 6, 2023
Despite being a viable, stable, and well-paying career choice, there is a growing shortage of skilled trade workers in both Canada and the United States. The American Welding Society indicates there is a shortage of more than 450,000 skilled welding professions, and a study conducted by Metal Supermarkets indicates that young people lack interest in trade careers, with more than half (56%) of respondents stating they were not interested in going to trade school.
So, in honor of National Welding Month, Metal Supermarkets is launching a $2,500 scholarship to financial support individuals interested in attending a trade school education or to continue their education and grow their knowledge in their chosen field, to lessen the skilled trade worker shortage.
Eligibility:
Required Documents:
Application Process:
For more information and application forms please visit: https://www.metalsupermarkets.com/trade-school-scholarship.
Submission Deadline: June 30, 2023
Application deadline: July 10, 2022Criteria:Open to all students who are:
Criteria: Several awards are available for children of the National Union of Public and General Employees, with a variety of criteria.
Criteria: Awarded to students with permanent disabilities, based on commitment to their academic discipline, volunteerism and/or employment, and the potential to be an outstanding participant in the community.
Criteria: Students who have successfully completed high school and entering their first year of post-secondary education.
In collaboration with Roots Community Services, PCK IP is pleased to offer the PCK Diversity Scholarship Program for youths from the Black, African, Caribbean and Indigenous communities.
Eligibility Criteria
Applications should be sent to: internship@rootscs.org.
Application deadline: March 1, 2023. 
Pink Pearl Canada is a community-based charitable organization that provides support, facilitates connections, and empowers young women across Canada who are courageously overcoming the social and emotional challenges of being diagnosed with cancer. 
Pink Pearl Canada is offering a $1,000 scholarship for Canadians who self-identify as female, that are involved in their community, are/will be attending a post-secondary institution this fall and have been diagnosed with cancer between the ages of 18 and 40, and are still within this age bracket. 
To apply please visit: https://pinkpearlcanada.org/scholarship/ 
Application deadline: March 3rd, 2023.
An applicant must be a son, daughter or ward of a person whose principal income is derived from the pipeline construction industry.
Criteria: Please visit the RBC site to find a complete list of the RBC Royal Bank scholarships available to Canadian students, as well as details on the awards, information on how to apply, eligibility, application criteria and more.
The Reason One Mentorship & Scholarship Program awards scholarship and mentorship opportunities to Black students who are enrolled or recently accepted in a digital-related program, pursuing or with plans to pursue a career in the tech industry.  
This program is explicitly focused on removing the systemic, financial, and socio-economic barriers that Black students encounter in tech career paths. 
The Reason One Mentorship & Scholarship Program is offering:
The deadline to apply is May 7, 2023
To be eligible, you must:
How to apply Deadline date to You'll need to submit an online application by May 7, 2023.
Each application requires the following:
To apply please visit: Reason One Mentorship & Scholarship Program | Reason One (reasononeinc.com)
Criteria: Awarded to a full or part-time student who is a veteran, child/grandchild of a veteran, or associated with the Legion, based on financial need.
Criteria: In addition to providing the primary financial support for their families, eligible applicants must be enrolled in, or have been accepted to, a vocational/skills training program or an undergraduate degree program and must demonstrate financial need. Also, please note only residents of Soroptimist International of the Americas' member countries and territories are eligible to apply for the educational grants.Apply Here!
Stampede Auto is a used car dealership serving Calgary, Alberta since 2013. They specialize in getting the best deals for their customers on used cars. With over 80 units in stock and growing
With the cost of a college education skyrocketing, it’s becoming more and more difficult for students to afford to pay for school. The Used Cars Dealers Scholarship is here to help. They are awarding a 750 CAD/- scholarship to one deserving student each year. All you must do is write your view on any of the below topics (only one):
Scholarship Details:
Applicant Eligibility: Students pursuing graduation or have obtained graduate degree this year from USA and Canada.Average GPA: 3.0Start date of scholarship: Wednesday, November 1st, 2023.Last date of applying scholarship: Thursday, October 31st, 2024Winner announce date: Friday, November 15th, 2024.
Procedure:
All applicants must submit a unique essay on any of the above-mentioned topics. Also, applicants should make sure the length of the essay should be of minimum 500 words.
The following details must accompany the essay:
Full nameMailing addressEmail addressPhone numberUniversity NameScheduled Graduation DateCurrent GPAEssay must be submitted along with details noted above to scholarship@stampedeauto.com
The winner will be informed via email issued by the office of Stampedeauto.com or will be updated on the website and the winner will be required to confirm acceptance of the scholarship to enable funding.
Start Proud, formerly known as Out On Bay Street, is committed to recognizing excellence in the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender & Queer (LGBTQ+) student communities across Canada in order to help students excel in their careers.Criteria:
Application: Please visit: StartProuds scholarship page: https://startproud.org/l2bpo/
Criteria:
The Inclusion Scholarship & Internship program intends to support Black and Indigenous youth in Canada, providing both financial assistance and practical work experience as they start their careers. This Scholarship and Internship aims to help students get financial support, an exciting internship in a global financial institution, mentorship and professional coaching from the management team, and the possibility of a full-time employment opportunity with Sun Life following graduation.
There is a total of up to twenty (20) possible combined Scholarships and Internships to be made available for eligible participants to apply for, with each student limited to one (1) such Scholarship and Internship, although fewer than twenty (20) may be awarded depending upon the number of successful applicants.
The scholarships are $5,000 CAD per year, available for one (1) academic year per applicant and include a four (4) month paid summer internship with Sun Life from May 2024 to August 2024. In addition, the successful recipient will also receive career and professional mentorship from Sun Life during the internship. This comes with support for the successful recipient to identify any future opportunities within Sun Life which may be of interest and to apply for and potentially transition to a full-time role with Sun Life following the internship.
Eligibility
Eligible applicants must:
Questions: 
Students can also email any questions to dcis@sunlife.com. 
The application process is as follows:
1.    The applicant submits an online application via and including:(a) A 500-word personal essay, or a 3-5 minute video essay in support of their candidacy about the following topic: Tell us about yourself and what winning this scholarship and the internship position would mean to you.(b) A current, one page resume, including non-curricular activities that could be relevant or important to the applicant for the purpose of this Scholarship and Internship.(c) Unofficial transcripts of academic records from the applicant’s current program.
2.    The application, including all supporting documentation, must be submitted to SPC no later than 1:00 PM EST, November 17th, 2023.
3.    Documents will be reviewed by SPC staff to ensure all requirements have been met.
4.    Receipt of applications will be acknowledged by email following processing by SPC.
5.    It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure all supporting documents have been received by visiting the website to review their application status. If any supporting documentation is not submitted within the specified timeframe, the application may be subject to disqualification.
6.    Account maintenance will be conducted online.
7.    The application will then be reviewed and assessed, and applicants will be notified if they were successful or not. 
The student will need to add awards@univcan.ca to their safe senders in their junk email options so they can continue to receive important messages from SPC.
Supporting Documentation
The supporting documentation described below is required as part of the application. If any of these documents are not received or are incomplete, the application itself will be considered incomplete. SPC will send a final follow-up email to the applicant on November 13th, 2023, requesting any missing or incomplete documentation. Any applicant submitting supporting documents after this date will not receive a follow-up email. Supporting documents must be received by SPC on or before 1:00 PM EST, November 17th, 2023 for an application to be considered.
Personal Statement
The statement can be submitted in written or video format and must answer the following: Tell us about yourself and what winning this scholarship and the internship position would mean to you. Written statements can be up to 500 words or video submissions can be up to 3 minutes in length.
Curriculum VitaeProvide a copy of a current curriculum vitae.
Transcript
Provide a transcript(s) of all post secondary institutions marks.
Documents must be uploaded by submitting an online application or sent directly to the address below by 1:00 PM EST, November 17th, 2023.
Please Note: If any of the requirements noted above are not met, the application will be considered incomplete and will not be considered. Deadline extensions will not be granted.
Criteria: Open to students across Canada who are in their final year of high school or CEGEP (in Quebec); have a minimum overall grade average of 75% in their most recently completed school year, and have demonstrated community leadership.
Students from the Indigenous community face unique challenges and systemic barriers that can make getting a post-secondary education difficult. So, TD worked closely with AFOA Canada to build a scholarship program that helps meets the unique needs of students from the Indigenous community. The TD Scholarship for Indigenous Peoples will help recipients with tuition, living expenses, and exploring employment opportunities at TD.
How to apply: Students must apply online through the website here: Indigenous Student Scholarships Grants And Bursaries (td.com)
Application Deadline: November 6, 2023
Criteria: The Terry Fox Humanitarian Award recognizes humanitarian volunteer work. There is no set discipline students must study in order to receive the award, but they must maintain their academic, voluntary and career performance to a satisfactory level.
Criteria:
The Kevin Collins Abilities Scholarship is presented to a post-secondary student with a disability. Eligible applicants must have at minimum one full semester left in their post-secondary education.
The scholarship is worth $3,000 and will be awarded at our annual gala in the fall.
Application package must be sent to info@wecare-canada.org with the subject line ‘SCHOLARSHIP’.
Application deadline is March 31, 2023.
Criteria: Granted for outstanding post-secondary achievement by black students in Ontario.
 
American Hat Makers Scholarship 
The American Hat Makers is calling all aspiring fashion designers and students in the clothing/garment industry. Showcase your creativity and design skills in our exciting hat design contest. Unleash your imagination and create a unique hat that defines your signature style. Whether it's a trendy fedora, a chic beret, or an edgy snapback, the choice is yours.
How to participate:
Prize:
1st Place: $500 cash prize, featured showcase of your design on our website and social media platforms, and a certificate of achievement.2nd Place: $300 cash prize, recognition on our website and social media platforms, and a certificate of achievement.3rd Place: $200 cash prize, mention on our website and social media platforms, and a certificate of achievement.
Important Dates:
For more information please visit the American Hat Makers' site.
The Salt Spring National Art Prize (SSNAP)
The Salt Spring National Art Prize Society is a not-for-profit organization that seeks to recognize, showcase, and advance the accomplishments of Canadian visual artists. This year, SSNAP is offering $50,000 in awards.
Deadline date for submissions is May 31, 2023. 
For more information please visit the SSNAP website.
Advertising Standards Canada's Robert E. Oliver AwardCriteria:
To obtain and submit application, please email: awards@georgebrown.ca
Allied Van Lines ScholarshipAllied Van Lines is committed to improving the future of up-and-coming logistics and business professionals in Canada. This scholarship is awarded to a Canadian citizen, or Permanent Resident enrolled in a full-time post-secondary institution in a Logistics or equivalent field. Applicant must submit a brief essay of 400 to 800 words detailing why logistics/supply chain management is important.
Corporate Finance Institute Annual Scholarship Criteria: this award is for both part-time and full-time students that show passion for finance and who can show their determination to improve lives through their careers, as well as someone who shows financial need so that they can attend post-secondary institutions.
Estey Undergraduate Student Essay CompetitionCriteria: Awarded based on a research paper on business or accounting/finance or related topics. Students can resubmit papers from the previous year, but all work must represent students' independent and individual work.
RBC Royal Bank Aboriginal Student Awards Program Criteria: Awarded to a First Nations (status or non-status, Inuit, or Métis) student in a Financial Services program based on financial need and personal/academic achievement. Also:
Toronto CREW Real Estate ScholarshipToronto Commercial Real Estate Women (Toronto CREW) is a business development network for women who represent a broad cross-section of disciplines in the commercial real estate industry. To encourage women to enter the commercial real estate industry, a scholarship of up to $3,000 CAD may be awarded to a full-time female student who will complete an academic program focused on careers found in the commercial real estate industry and who has the intention to pursue a career in commercial real estate.Criteria:
The following Early Childhood Education programs are offering a $2,000 tuition grant to domestic students starting in September 2023.
Early Childhood Education (C100)*Early Childhood Education (Consecutive Diploma/Degree) (C118)*Early Childhood Education (Consecutive Diploma/GBC Degree) (C148)*Early Childhood Education (Accelerated) (C160)*
*This opportunity is funded in partnership with the City of Toronto, the Region of Durham, the Region of Peel, the Province of Ontario, and the Government of Canada under the new Canada-Ontario Early Childhood Workforce Agreement, which provides one-time federal funding to support the retention and recruitment of a high-quality child care and early years workforce.
Early Childhood Education Qualifications Upgrade ProgramCriteria: Awarded to individuals involved in the child care and early years sector across Ontario
Aging Matters ScholarshipCriteria:
For more information, please visit www.seniorcare.com/scholarship/
Annual Senior Care Scholarship http://www.aplaceformom.com/scholarshipPlace for Mom is offering a $1,000 scholarship to students enrolled in an associate's degree, bachelor's degree program in a medical, nursing or social sciences-related major; who are interested in the fields of aging and gerontology. Applicant must be planning on pursuing a career that involves working with senior citizens.
Barbara Rhomberg Excellence in Nursing ScholarshipCriteria:
Application: Download application form
Pacific Medical Training ScholarshipCriteria: 
Six Surgery
Six Surgery, a leader in cosmetic and plastic surgery, will award a $1,000 scholarship to one deserving student who demonstrated leadership in medical or health related fields.  A winner will be selected according to their academic achievements, and their submission of a short essay or video presentation.
Eligibility
How to Apply:
Participants must submit a 500-word essay or a 2-minute video presentation in response to the following question:
For information and forms please visit: torontosurgery.com/scholarship
Application Deadline: April 15, 2023
7Shifts Culinary & Hospitality Management Scholarships
7shifts offers scholarships for culinary and hotel/restaurant management students to support the next generation of professionals. Bursaries are available to students at nationally-recognized post-secondary institutions in culinary programs, and restaurant, hotel, and hospitality management programs in North America.
Criteria:
Apprenticeship Completion GrantCriteria: Awarded to Registered Apprentices in Interprovincial Standards Red Seal Program Trades who complete their Apprentice training.
Apprenticeship Incentive GrantIn-CourseCriteria: Awarded to a Registered Apprentice in an Interprovincial Standards Red Seal Program Trade who is registered with an employer or equivalent organization and is able to show progress in his or her program by completing the first or second level.
AACE Canada Competitive ScholarshipsCriteria: Awarded to a Construction Science and Management degree program student in second year or higher who has excellent academic performance and is involved in extracurricular activities.
Canadian Association of Women in Construction Criteria: Awarded to a female student in a Centre for Advanced Building Technologies program based on financial need, leadership activities and a career objective in the construction industry.
Carole and George Fletcher Foundation Awards ScholarshipsCriteria: Awarded to a full-time applied science or engineering technology student based on academic excellence. Also must have a parent or grandparent who is a member.
E. Wayne Kay Community College Scholarship Criteria: Awarded to a student in a manufacturing or related program based on academic merit (a 3.0 GPA or more).
Net Solutions
Net Solutions is offering its annual scholarship giveaway (2022-23) to expand equal access to education in technology-related fields. Students (current and about-to-enroll) is invited to participate in the program. 
Eligible Criteria:
How to Participate: 
Students are required to submit an original 1000–2000-word piece (along with the research resources) on the topic:
To apply please visit: https://www.netsolutions.com/scholarship.
The Orvil L. Davie Bursary Fund
The Orvil L. Davie Bursary Fund (named after the first Chair of the Board of HRAI) was established by HRAI to assist students in completing their education for a career in the heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration industry (HVACR) and to assist in maintaining a higher caliber of HVACR industry personnel.
The fund provides bursaries to persons who require financial assistance in completing training in an accepted course directly related to the HVACR industry.  Applicants for the bursaries may come from the community or vocational college systems, or through industry sources such as the provincial apprenticeship programs.
Eligibility Requirements
Award:$1,000 bursary
Application details:Deadline: November 30, 2023 Submission: training@hrai.ca 
For more information please visit the HRAI website. 
Terry O'Banion Student Technology AwardCriteria: Refer to website for further information
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.