
The Facilities Management Department provides a comprehensive range of services such as space planning, the design, building construction, renovations, engineering, maintenance, energy management, housekeeping, furnishings, grounds maintenance and transportation. It is responsible for operating and maintaining buildings at all College Campuses: St. James Campus, Casa Loma Campus, Toronto Metropolitan University Campus and Waterfront Campus.
To continuously exceed customer expectations through excellence in asset management, leadership and professionalism, adding the highest value to the community within a rapidly changing environment.
Facilities Management Department is committed to adding the greatest value to the community and to the educational experience through the strategic management of the assets and resources in support of the strategic direction of the College.
We will achieve Financial Accountability through accurate accounting procedures and effective tracking methods. Future cost will be effectively projected to assist in long-range planning and budgeting.
We respect and value all members of the George Brown College community. We promote a safe, clean and secure environment for continuous learning and individual growth.
We will conduct ourselves responsibly and honestly to earn the community’s trust every day.
We are committed to providing the highest level of Quality Service to every customer every day.
We will strive each day to improve our individual and collective performance.
Please visit the Service Guide to learn about the services provided by Facilities Management Department and to understand the procedures that need to be followed in order to receive these services. We strive to provide these services in a most efficient, timely and courteous manner.
For any facilities-related request, please email us at FacilitiesServices@georgebrown.ca.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.