
1. Where do I send workplace students?Our School of Work and College Preparation offers vocational training within the College Vocational program. The program provides tools to help students set and achieve realistic vocational goals and succeed in today's job market. It assists students who have had difficulties learning or who have major gaps in their past education. Upon completion, students will have learned communication skills, basic math, computer skills, life skills, fitness and employability skills, as well as gaining job experience through co-op placement. For more information, please call 416.415.5000 ext. 2503 or email Jerry Nugent at jnugent@georgebrown.ca
2. This student is a great cook - he just never took any math....If the student is missing a math credit, they have a few options:
They may benefit from taking our Hospitality Services program, which has courses that include Applied Math, Communications, Computer Literacy and General Education. Successful completion may qualify people for entry into programs in the School of Hospitality & Tourism Management. The requirement for Hospitality Services is grade 12 English, completed at the College or University level. For more information visit: http://www.georgebrown.ca/H101
If the student is over 19 years of age, they qualify as a mature student. Mature students missing a math or English credit can write an admission test in that subject area. The student applies for the program, and they are sent a letter telling them they need to take an admission test. Please see the Assessment Centre webpage for information on admission testing.
For more information about applying as a mature student, visit our Guide for Mature Students.
3. How do I help my students know what their options are when they don't have the marks or credits to get into the program they want?Entry Advising is a free George Brown College service that matches your academic skills, educational background and career goals with options from the college's exceptional certificate, diploma, and degree programs. These options may include upgrading, or referrals to academic departments. Entry Advising can even connect you to external agencies for anything from credential assessment to career counselling. For more information about this service, please call Entry Advising at 416.415.5000 ext. 2949 or email collegeadvisor@georgebrown.ca
4. Is it true that applicants need an OSSD and other courses at the C and/or U level for pre-programs? Is there any other way of getting in?If the applicant is under 19 years of age, they will need an OSSD (Ontario Secondary School Diploma), and grade 12 English, completed at either the College or University level to be considered for admission into the Pre-program.
As with other programs, if the student is 19 years of age or older, he or she can apply to the College as a "mature student." If the mature student does not have an OSSD, in lieu of submitting a high school diploma and/or academic prerequisites, they will be asked to write an admission test to demonstrate they are able to work at the level of English required in the program. In this case, the student will then be evaluated for admission on the basis of the test results rather than on the basis of their high school grades. If students require additional information about admission prerequisites and/or mature student status, please refer to Admissions Web Page or the Admissions Office at 416.415.2000.
5. What can we do with students that are so disenchanted with high school they just don't have the marks or the credits to be admitted?Students such as these may benefit from participation in a pre-program. Pre-programs help to make the transition to College easier because they act as a "stepping stone" between high school and post-secondary diploma programs. A pre-program allows the student to get used to going to college, strengthen academic skills, and build confidence in a college environment. It also allows the student to experience what it is like to study in that subject area, and determine if it is in fact the area in which they would like to pursue a career.
Even students unsure of their career choice can register into pre-programs in which they have some interest and take the career planning course. This course helps them to identify and clarify their areas of interest and to identify career choices that would be a good fit for them. Also, some of the courses that students take in pre-programs can later be counted toward the completion of another post-secondary diploma program. For example, the English taken in Pre-Health can fulfill the English requirement in another post-secondary diploma program, such as RPN. Sometimes, students who perform exceptionally well in the first semester of their pre-program are accepted into a post-secondary diploma program.
6. How do you accommodate students with special needs?To assist students with physical, visual and learning disabilities achieve greater independence and academic success, Accessible Learning Services provides counselling and adaptive technology support services, which makes specialized hardware and software available. Applicants to the College with Disability requirements should connect to Accessible Learning Services for assistance during the application process, as they can receive accommodations for admission or placement testing, not just once accepted as a student. Contact Accessible Learning Services at 416.415.5000 x 2622.
To provide one-on-one help with math and English, George Brown College has Tutoring and Learning Centres (TLCs). Staffed by faculty and peer tutors, the Centres have computers equipped with a range of software to assist students with their grammar, writing, listening, and pronunciation skills. Unique language needs are met through specialized tutorials. The College offers students with special needs access to counselling, career training, and accessible learning services through the Student Services Department.
7. Can someone go into Practical Nursing and transfer into Bachelor of Science Nursing?No, it is not possible to transfer from Practical Nursing to the 4 year Collaborative Degree with Toronto Metropolitan University. Please visit our website to review the admission requirements for the 4 year GBC-Toronto Metropolitan University BScN: www.georgebrown.ca/s118However, students who have completed the Practical Nursing Diploma may be eligible for the RPN Bridge to BScN offered by George Brown College and Trent University. For information about the Bridge, including minimum admission averages, visit: www.georgebrown.ca/s442
Please note that students may not transfer between BScN programs.
8. Does pre-Health Science prepare students to go into the Bachelor of Science Nursing?No. This program prepares students to go into Practical Nursing.
9. What is the best way to apply for a program, online or by mailApplying online speeds up the processing of applications, and is the preferred method of www.ontariocolleges.ca. Please be aware there is a $110 fee to apply.
10. Should a student who is interested in a highly competitive program use two choices on his/her application, if there are two start dates?If the program is offered in both September and January, the student can apply for both start dates. Those who have not applied online can contact www.ontariocolleges.ca by phone to add January.
11. Can a student take an engineering program at George Brown and transfer to a university?Many of our students have gone on to pursue university studies. No formal articulation agreements are in place for direct entry into third year, however, our students have been known to get credits for what they have studied at George Brown by various universities. Find more information about college-university transfers
12. Can George Brown College’s degrees be used to gain admission to master/graduate-level programs at universities in Canada and abroad?George Brown graduates receive a Bachelor's level of education that allows them to apply for graduate studies within their field. It is the responsibility of the student to ensure that they meet the admission requirements for that specific graduate program. Please note that students looking to go on to Teachers' College should apply to the Consecutive ECE program.
13. Can a student apply for a degree program out of high school and how does this affect admission criteria and how does the application work for joint programs?Students applying to any of our degree programs, including joint degrees, must apply through www.ontariocolleges.ca. Please refer to the  Admissions Roadmap page or call the Admissions Office at 416.415.2000 for information on admission criteria.
14. How does the Consecutive ECE program work?Students must pay $110 and apply to George Brown College's Consecutive ECE program online at www.ontariocolleges.ca. This program is taught at our Toronto Metropolitan University campus. The first two years are taught by George Brown faculty and the last two years are taught by Toronto Metropolitan University faculty. The students then graduate with a diploma from George Brown College and a degree from Toronto Metropolitan University. Our George Brown students pay college fees for the first two years and then university fees when they become Toronto Metropolitan University students for the last two years.
15. Is there a marked differential used for U and C courses? Are there cut off marks for any of your limited enrolment courses?We treat every student the same and do not offer a differential for U or C courses. Please contact the Admission Assessor for each program regarding cut-off marks for limited enrolment programs.
16. What is the difference (if any) in starting a nursing program at GBC as opposed to Toronto Metropolitan University?The curriculum is the same; it's really a matter of personal preference. Students often choose us because we have a much more personable environment and a more intimate classroom setting.
17. What degree programs do you offer?Please go to our Degree Programs Page.
18. What are the approximate cut-off ranges to get into the different programs? What are the most competitive programs to get into?Some cut-off ranges are as follows: Dental hygiene 80%+, Dental tech. 70%, Denturism 70%. These will change from year to year, as the pool of applicants and marks change. The percentages referred to above are based on overall rankings scores not grade point averages. The following are the most competitive programs: Dance, Dental Assistant, Dental Hygiene, Dental Technology, Denturism, ECE, Fitness and Lifestyle Management, Orthotic/Prosthetic Technician, Practical Nursing, Restorative Dental Hygiene, Theatre Arts and Graphic Design.
19. What recommendations do you have for a student applying to a highly competitive program? Should they start in Continuing Education?Students should consider that it may not be possible to gain admission on their first try. If the program they are applying to requires a portfolio or some other admissions supplement, a foundations program could be considered. For example, if a student is lacking a strong portfolio for Graphic Design, they could take Arts Fundamentals and build a good portfolio. They should also check for part-time study options through Continuing Education.
If the program they are applying to requires a portfolio or some other admissions supplement, (i.e., Graphic Design) a foundations program may help them prepare for admission to the College. For other highly competitive programs, a strong secondary academic performance is the best guarantee of gaining admission. If a grade average is not high, it may be best for a student to repeat the required course(s) to get a better grade.
20. Do you help them find jobs after their diploma/degree? What scholarships (entrance) do you offer?Throughout a student's time at George Brown, we offer career counselling as well as career courses within their curriculum. Once they graduate, students still have access to our Career Counselling Centre. First-year students can apply for an entrance award; the application is sent to them in their admissions package.
21. Do you have co-op placements? Many of our programs offer hands-on experience, either through placements or paid co-ops. Please refer to the individual program pages in the calendar for more information.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.