
Make the trends that will shape our society
If you want to make a career out of bringing your designs to life, you need a good understanding of the fashion industry. Our programming can give you the hands-on practice needed to develop that understanding. By attending George Brown, you’ll be studying at one of the top fashion schools in the world, as named by fashionista.com.
George Brown College’s Fashion Exchange (FX) is a vibrant hub where fashion education, design, production, entrepreneurship and engagement come together under one roof in the heart of downtown Toronto.
We cover the entire spectrum of fashion design and fashion business education from technology to the fundamentals of design, marketing, merchandising, manufacturing and fashion management. In class you’ll learn from instructors with industry experience and you’ll have the opportunity to gain you your own experience through field education opportunities.
Our programs focus on the same industrial methods and standards used by the fashion supply chain so you’ll be learning what employers and the industry are looking for. You’ll be able to develop your skills and your portfolio as you head towards a successful career.
With our location in the heart of Canada’s fashion capital, our students are immersed in the industry. We have over 1,300 relationships and we are the only Canadian school endorsed by the American Apparel & Footwear Association. These relationships help inform our programming, so our students are always on top of current trends. They also provide field education opportunities where students get to learn and develop their skills in a real workplace.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.