
GEORGE BROWN COLLEGE
This has been a year of transformative change at George Brown College, as we welcomed a new President, launched our Indigenous Education Strategy and Anti-Racism Action Plan, broke ground on Limberlost Place, and celebrated many new partnerships, programs and initiatives. In the 2021-22 Fast Facts, we reflect on what our students, employees, partners and broader community have achieved together.
DOWNLOAD PRINTABLE PDF
George Brown broke ground on Ontario’s first institutional mass-timber, net-zero carbon emissions building, Limberlost Place.
Limberlost Place was celebrated by NOW Magazine as one of 11 buildings that will change Toronto and recognized by MaRS as one of 10 Toronto green buildings to get excited about.
George Brown was among the top 10 research colleges in Canada, with projects ranging from developing affordable, adaptive clothing for people with disabilities to exploring innovative ways of diverting black plastic from landfill. We will be able to help even more partners develop new products and services, conduct innovative research and further train students in leading-edge technologies thanks to $3.9M in funding awarded by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council’s Applied Research and Technology Partnership program.
Greater Toronto’s Top Employers
George Brown was named one of Greater Toronto’s Top 100 Employers for 2022.
Toronto’s Best College
George Brown was voted Toronto’s best college in the 2021 NOW Magazine Readers’ Choice Poll.
George Brown College welcomed our new President, Dr. Gervan Fearon, in August 2021. With a proven track record of collaboration, transformative leadership and engaging higher learning communities in a shared mission, he leads George Brown’s efforts to provide transformative education opportunities that benefit learners, industry and the greater community.
Visit our website to learn more about the Senior Leadership Team at George Brown. 
George Brown launched our first Indigenous Education Strategy, outlining how we will integrate Indigenous ways of knowing into curriculum, classroom practices and institutional decision-making. We also kicked off our Indigenous Knowledge Keepers Series and introduced our Star Blanket Medallion. 
With the launch of our Anti-Racism Action Plan, George Brown mapped out the tangible steps we are taking to eliminate racism in our community. We also signed the Scarborough Charter on Anti-Black Racism and Black Inclusion, established Black Futures Month and the Black Futures Hub, and our senior leadership team completed “Leading for Equity” training.
New programs launched in 2021-22 include:
Honours Bachelor of Brand Design
Web Development – Front-End Design
Applied A.I. Solutions Development
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Power and Control
Honours Bachelor of Food Studies
George Brown became the first Canadian partner of the Global Tourism Resilience and Crisis Management Centre, with plans to establish a satellite centre in Toronto.
George Brown collaborated with Toronto Hydro to develop our new Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Power and Control program and celebrated its launch with entrance scholarships sponsored by the utility provider.
George Brown students and employees are supporting the digital transformation of our province’s 700 museums through a three-year partnership with the Ontario Museum Association.
George Brown students are now eligible to pursue medical or veterinary school at St. George’s University in Grenada thanks to a new international partnership with the school.
An expanded partnership between the Pinball Clemons Foundation, RBC Future Launch and George Brown College is providing career pathways for Black, Indigenous and People of Colour (BIPOC) youth.
750 new work-integrated learning opportunities were made available to students thanks to a partnership with the Business Higher Education Roundtable, which prioritizes access for students who are racialized, Indigenous or people with disabilities.
George Brown collaborated with MEET Digital Culture Centre in Milan, Italy to present Digifest 2021, our virtual global event focused on digital culture, creativity and innovation. 
MORE THAN 
$720,000in COVID-19 relief funding was distributed to students who faced financial difficulties as a result of the pandemic.
As rising grocery costs and pandemic-related job losses affected many students, George Brown renewed its commitment to fighting food insecurity with a
$250,000donation to the Student Nutrition Access Program (SNAP) run by the Student Association.
Recognizing that the crisis in Ukraine directly impacted many international students from this region, George Brown allocated an additional
$250,000to the Emergency Bursary Fund to support affected students facing financial challenges.
 
 
MORE THAN  
$5,390,000was raised by the George Brown College Foundation in 2021-2022 to fund scholarships, programming, capital improvements and special projects at the college.*
MORE THAN  
$1,272,000in scholarships was disbursed in 2021-22 with an average value of
$1,200per student.*
* This was made possible by the generosity of our donors.
Philanthropist Jack Cockwell made a
$10 million
gift to support the construction of Limberlost Place, building on his earlier $8-million donation to George Brown. The combined $18 million represents the largest donation in Ontario college history.
Interested in hearing more about how George Brown supports learners and partners, while contributing to city-building and community development across Toronto? Visit Supporting Our City.
About GBC
Fast Facts was designed by Graphic Design student Nathan Leung and Interaction Design student Elisa Oh as part of the experiential learning initiative at George Brown’s IN Design studio.
26,944full-time students(including 873 apprentices)
 
3,106part-time students
 
52,851Continuing Educationregistrations
 
32%international students
174full-time programs offered
46Centre for Arts, Design &Information Technology programs
25Centre for Business programs
11Centre for Community Services &Early Childhood programs
31Centre for Construction &Engineering Technologies programs
26Centre for HealthSciences programs
20Centre for Hospitality &Culinary Arts programs
15Centre for Preparatory &Liberal Studies programs
189Continuing EducationCertificates/Designations
1,411Full-time Employees
2,836Part-time Employees
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.