
The Field Education Course (BUS 1067) is a Business elective course available to Centre for Business advanced diploma students who do not have a work experience term in their program of study.
Students find their own job (paid or unpaid) that is related to their field of study and must work at least 8 hours per week consecutively during the semester. The job must be approved by the Course Coordinator. The “Job Approval Form” and contact information can be found in the Centre for Business Office (room 313A, 200 King Street East, SJA Building or room 103, 290 Adelaide Street East, SJC Building). Upon successful completion of the Field Education Course (BUS 1067), students earn a Business elective credit (pass or fail) in their programs.
Most of Business students have part-time jobs. If the job is related to the field of study, application can be made to earn a Business elective credit while working at that part-time job. There is no class time or exams in this course (students are required to complete certain reports and an evaluation form by the end of the semester). This is a great opportunity for students who have a qualified part-time job to earn a Business elective credit towards the completion of their programs.
This Field Education Course (BUS 1067) is available in all 3 semesters (Winter, Spring/Summer, and Fall) every year.
To apply for this Field Education Course, please visit the Centre for Business office (room 313A, 200 King Street East, SJA Building or room 103, 290 Adelaide Street East, SJC Building) to get the application package for you to fill out and sign off (by both you and your supervisor at work). If you have any questions, please email Joshua Li, the Course Coordinator at jli@georgebrown.ca.
Learn about other possibilities to gain practical work experience.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.