
Over the past few days, we’ve sent a lot of information your way at a rapid pace and so much has changed in the world around us. We appreciate your patience and understanding as we move to make decisions quickly that serve you and our community the best. If you are feeling stressed, we encourage you to check out George Brown College Counsellor Lavlet Forde’s five simple ways to help to improve your health and reduce your stress level.
Get a good night’s sleep. Several research studies have shown that individuals who get at least seven to nine hours of sleep experience less stress, have better focus and have more energy throughout the day. Check out this two-minute video on how to relax your body to assist with sleep.
Connect with others. There are so many different ways that we can connect with others. Why not text, call or video chat with a friend? If you are experiencing a lot of stress and want to speak with someone, consider contacting Good2talk. It’s a free counselling support line available for post-secondary students 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Good2talk also offers text-based support.
Stretch. We often hold a lot of physical tension within our body, which increases our stress level. Try spending a few minutes each day stretching. Consider beginning or ending your day with a five- to 10-minute stretching exercise. Stretching helps to calm the mind, release tension and increase your energy level.
Take 5 or 15. Try to set aside 15 minutes for an activity that you enjoy. This could be 15 minutes of yoga, reading or a 15-minute power nap. If you find it hard to set aside 15 minutes, no worries – start with just five minutes. Five minutes of self-care is better than no self-care at all.
Breathe. Deep breathing is a wonderful therapeutic practice for the body. Deep breathing helps to lower blood pressure and provide a feeling of calm within the body. There are so many YouTube videos, apps and articles on deep breathing.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.