
The George Brown College Foundation engages in fundraising activities to sustain and further its vision and mandate. It welcomes and facilitates the activities of third parties in raising funds that support its mission and are in keeping with its values. The Foundation has the primary responsibility to manage and support the identification, cultivation, solicitation, recognition, and stewardship of all College private funding sources, through a decentralized, but well-coordinated process. The Foundation will ensure the coordination of all third-party fundraising. The Foundation will be guided in established procedures by the Foundation Policies.
Please find our policies below.
Conflict of interest arises when a Director’s private or personal interest supersedes or competes with his/her duties and responsibilities as a member of the Board. This could arise from an actual, potential or perceived apparent conflict of interest of a financial nature or other nature.
Members of the Board are obligated to perform their official duties and conduct themselves in a manner that will bear the closest public scrutiny given that colleges, and their Foundations, are part of the broader public sector and subject to more public scrutiny than private organizations.
This policy applies to all directors, including ex officio directors and all non-board members of committees as well as Foundation and College employees. You can find a copy of the George Brown College Foundation’s Conflict of Interest Policy here.
The purpose of this policy is to define the process that governs the recognition of donors to George Brown College, including protocols for determining permanent recognition through the naming of College activities, programs, awards, spaces, or other assets. The policy formalizes donor recognition in order to provide:
The naming of a building, space, activity, or program reflects the importance of the donor to the realization of the College’s mission and vision. The donor's name can add prestige to the building, to the program, to the faculty, or to the program in return. Please download a copy of the Donor Recognition Naming Policy.
The purpose of this policy is to define how investment earnings on endowment investments are allocated into principal and expendable endowment funds. Read the Endowment Disbursement Policy.
The George Brown College Foundation engages in fundraising activities to sustain and further its vision and mandate. It welcomes and facilitates the activities of third parties in raising funds that support its mission and are in keeping with its values. The Foundation has the primary responsibility to manage and support the identification, cultivation, solicitation, recognition, and stewardship of all College private funding sources, through a decentralized, but well-coordinated process. The Foundation will ensure the coordination of all third-party fundraising. The Foundation will be guided in established procedures by the Fundraising Policy.
The purpose of this policy is to set out provisions that govern all fundraising campaigns, programs, and events carried out in support of George Brown College or by third parties in support of charitable purposes that are aligned with the College's vision and values. You can download the George Brown College Foundation Fundraising Policy here.
The George Brown College Foundation (referred to as “the Foundation”) accepts gifts in support of the College. This Gift Acceptance Policy applies to all fundraising activities of the Foundation, including: annual giving programs; planned gifts; major gifts and capital needs; special facility-based fundraising initiatives; campaigns; endowments; and any third parties conducting fundraising on behalf of the George Brown College (referred to as “College”) and/or the Foundation. You can find a copy of the Gift Acceptance Policy here.
It is the intention of the Foundation to accept gifts that are in keeping with the Foundation’s mission, vision and strategic goals and in compliance with Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) policies related to charitable giving. References to CRA policies are policies in effect at the time this Policy was first issued. The policy is established to:
At GBC Foundation we respect your privacy and we are dedicated to protecting the confidentiality of your personal information. Download our Private Policy.
Our Privacy Policy complies with all applicable Canadian laws and established guidelines for charitable organizations. We use software and processes that adhere to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which ensures all credit card information is maintained in a secure environment.
Personal information collected by the Foundation is used to deliver services and to keep you informed and up-to-date about our activities, programs, special events, funding needs, opportunities to give, open houses and more. The Foundation does not rent, sell or trade any personal information with third parties. All personal information is confidential and the Foundation has electronic and manual safeguards to protect against the unauthorized access, loss, or alteration of personal information.
We collect, use and disclose personal information only for the purposes that are appropriate in light of the circumstances. This includes issuing official receipts for charitable purposes, disclosures on our T3010A (Charity Return) and for public recognition.
If at any time you wish to be removed from our list, simply contact us by phone at 416-415-5000 ext. 2054 or via e-mail at: gbc.foundation@georgebrown.ca and we will promptly accommodate your request.
If you have a question or concern about the collection, use or disclosure of personal information by GBCF, or about a request for access to your own personal information, please contact: gbc.foundation@georgebrown.ca.
The GBC Foundation invests its endowment funds following the Statement of Investment Policies and Guidelines (SIPG) approved by the GBCF Board of Directors. The portfolio of endowment funds is currently invested through Burgundy Asset Management, Mawer Investment Management Ltd., PBY Capital Limited, RBC Phillips, Hager & North Investment Counsel Inc.
Download our Statement of Investment Policies and Guidelines here.
 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.