
George Brown College is an institution which falls within the jurisdiction of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FIPPA). Therefore, the College must follow the regulations set out within the legislation in matters related to information access and protection of privacy.
FIPPA provides a person with a legal right of access to certain records and personal information under the control of an institution covered by the legislation. The purposes of the Act are as follows:
1) to provide a rights of access to information under the control of the institution in accordance with the principles that:
2) to protect the privacy of individuals with respect to personal information about themselves held by the institution; and to provide individuals with a right of access to that information.
Personal information (any information about an individual) is collected and maintained on all students and employees of the College. Concerns or questions about the collection, use or disclosure of your personal information, should be addressed to Freedom of Information & Privacy Coordinator, ext.4646.
As many of GBC's operations are governed by FIPPA, compliance with the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FIPPA) takes place throughout the college. Although what follows is not an exhaustive list, it may be helpful to locate some of the most frequently used policies, including:
All access requests for information or records held by the College should be made in writing to the Freedom of Information & Privacy Coordinator.
To do this, you can complete the downloadable form below. You must return your completed form and a cheque for the $5.00 application fee to the College’s Freedom of Information & Privacy Coordinator.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.