
The Alumni Relations Office is dedicated to your career success and life-long learning. There are a number of ways to advance your career – including the pursuit of continued education, visit our Lifelong Learning Page to find out more details.
Requests for official transcripts must be made online at https://records.georgebrown.ca/. Requests submitted in person at any of our Service Centres will be processed by mail and cannot be produced immediately. This service is available to students and alumni who attended after 1995. 
A George Brown College diploma is a passport to further education at many local, national and international postsecondary institutions. Click here for a transfer guide that contains current transfer agreements and opportunities for George Brown College graduates and will be subject to change as new agreements and revisions occur. For complete degree information and admission procedures, please contact the postsecondary institution directly. 
For full-time students, one year after graduation. For other students, including Continuing Education students, one year after the last day of your last class. For more information visit the following Student Email Frequently Asked Questions.
Please visit the Tech Support Page for more information on accessing or retrieving your email / George Brown account.
If you have graduated from full-time / part-time programs, you will be able to access GBCareers within one year of your graduation with your George Brown account. For alumni who have graduated more than one year, you can create a graduate account by entering the graduate portal here to access job postings and career services.
We are currently developing a new Digital Alumni ID for all alumni, please update your contact information at the Alumni Profile Centre to keep in touch with us so that you’ll be notified once it’s ready.
Thank you for thinking of George Brown Students and Graduates for your recruitment needs, please create an employer account on GBCareers to start posting job opportunities for our students and graduates.
For more information on employer benefits, please visit the Employer Overview web page.
As a graduate, you will be eligible to use George Brown facilities, please visit the below pages for more information about alumni access:
We are looking forward to staying connected with you, and you are encouraged to sign up to the Alumni Newsletter here.
Alumni Relations does not oversee the convocation or credential delivery to new graduates, please connect with records@georgebrown.ca for enquiries about certificates and transcripts.
 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.