
Wondering what the differences are between the various types of awards, scholarships and bursaries? Here’s an overview on the various options available to our students.
Award: A generic term that describes an item of monetary or other value that may be presented to a person or persons based upon specific criteria and administered by the Awards Office.
Bursaries: Are a monetary award allocated to a student on the basis of proven financial need. Recipients must be in good academic standing.
Scholarships: Are awards which recognizes exceptional talent/promise of academic excellence in a course or program which is sometimes combined with non-academic criteria (ex: community service, leadership in the field etc.), as well as financial need.
Divisional Awards: Available to George Brown College students based on their program.
College-Wide Awards: Are not program specific, although they may differentiate eligibility based on other factors (i.e. demographics). College-wide awards are available only to George Brown College students.
External Awards: Are available to students beyond George Brown College (i.e. provincially or nationally), and are provided and administered through external government, corporate, or community organizations.
Entrance Awards: Recognizes prospective students who are not yet attending George Brown College.
In-Course Awards: Recognizes students who are already attending GBC including 1st year students.
Wondering if you meet the eligibility requirements to apply for awards and scholarships? Here is a quick summary of the different criteria for eligibility.
Students who are enrolled full-time are taking a minimum 60 % of the prescribed courses for their program, or 40% for students with a permanent disability.
Students who are enrolled full-time are taking a minimum 20-59 % of the prescribed courses for their program.
Students who are residing in the province of Ontario for more than 12 months and have a valid Canadian citizenship or Permanent residency.
Students who are residing in Canada for the purpose of education and do not have a permanent residency status.
Financial need is based on, but not restricted to, the following factors:
There are many awards available, most awards are for registered full-time students. To view a detailed list of awards by division please visit the Types of Awards section.
Students can apply by clicking the Student Awards tab on STUVIEW completing the student profile. Additional awards applications may be available for those who meet minimum eligibility criteria.
Any funds awarded are applied to any outstanding tuition on your student account. The balance (if any) will be provided in the form of an etransfer.
You will receive an email to your George Brown College email account on how to accept the e-transfer of these funds. Please follow the instructions listed in the email transfer to deposit your funding to your Canadian bank account. You will be prompted within the email transfer to sign into your bank account to deposit the funding. There will be a refund security code that you will have to access through Stu-View to deposit your funding; once you have received the email transfer, this code will be available (instructions to retrieve the refund security code will be in the email transfer). We highly recommend that you copy and paste the refund security code into the email transfer when you go to deposit your funding.
If you have any issues accessing your funds, please contact StudentRefund@georgebrown.ca
The majority of awards are disbursed in the winter semester. However, some awards are disbursed in the fall and very few awards in the spring. Awards adjudication time for each award varies. If you are a successful recipient of any awards, they will be applied to your student account. You can track the status of your application on Stu-View.
Yes. You should complete an awards application each academic year to be considered for the awards and scholarships available for that year.
George Brown Colleges requires award recipients to provide their SIN or ITN for T4A reporting purposes as mandated by the Ontario government.
Yes, we do have awards for international students, view available awards here.
If you received an award, scholarship or bursary that exceeding $500 combined in the previous calendar you will have a T4A issued to you.
Access your T4A online through STU-VIEW. For an instructional guide, please visit "How to Access your T4A Online."
Please contact the Financial Aid office directly at awards@georgebrown.ca
T4A’s are released and mailed by the end of February for the previous calendar year.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.