
Yes, please visit our new Transcript Request Page for additional information.
Yes, this will be an unofficial transcript. You must still request an official transcript and pay the fee. We will fax you a copy of the transcript but will also mail you the original. Please visit our new Transcript Request Page for additional information.
Yes, unofficial copies of your transcript are available through Stu-view. You can also request a copy in person at the Student Service Centre at the Casa Loma or St. James Campus.
Each copy of your transcript is $15 CAD (taxes and shipping to all destinations included). Each copy contains a record of all courses and programs completed at the College.
Course outlines that you received at the start of your course should be kept for future use.Course outlines for the current year are available on the George Brown website (use link below). You may find course outlines from previous year in the archives section.
Course Outlines - George Brown College
If you did not keep the course outline you need to contact the academic department that offered your course. You can obtain the College contact list at: Contact Us.
You must provide us with a Release signed by the student authorizing us to disclose educational information. Please complete the form at the link below and fax it along with the Release to:
Fax: 416-415-4289Attention: Academic RecordsOr send an inquiry to the Records Department
Education Verification Form
Please allow five (5) days for verification if the student attended George Brown College from May 1995 and after. Allow three (3) weeks for students who attended George Brown College prior to May 1995.
The College is regulated by The Ministry of Colleges and Universities Act – R.R.O. 1990, Reg.771.For further information on the status of George Brown Colleges as an approved post-secondary education institution, please access the Province of Ontario – Ministry of Colleges and Universities website at: https://www.ontario.ca/page/ministry-colleges-universities.
The following link provides the instructions for requesting your certificate once you have completed the academic requirements.
http://coned.georgebrown.ca/policies/certificate-requests/
If you did not receive your diploma or certificate in the mail and you know you are eligible to graduate, please contact the Academic Records Office:
George Huang at ghuang@georgebrown.ca orGifty Quartey at gquartey@georgebrown.ca
Please advise the Academic Record Office by e-mail. Contact:George Huang at ghuang@georgebrown.ca orGifty Quartey at gquartey@georgebrown.ca
You need to indicate that you have paid your outstanding balance. If you would like us to mail your credential, please up-date ensure that your address is up-dated on Stu-view. If you would like to pick-up your credential, please advise us in the e-mail and we will respond to you with the date it will be available. Credentials can be picked-up from the Student Service Centre at the Casa Loma Campus only.
Credentials are mailed 6 – 8 weeks after the end of the fall and spring terms to those students who have met the academic requirements and have no other outstanding obligations to the College. Students who complete their programs in the winter term and do not attend Convocation will have their credentials mailed late June or early July.
We will only provide you with one (1) replacement copy. Please Credential Replacement Request Form and forward it to the Academic Records Office (fax and mail information on the form). Please include the reason for the replacement.
If you believe that the graduation date on your credential is incorrect, please advise the Academic Record Office by e-mail. Contact:
George Huang at ghuang@georgebrown.ca
We will review your record and if a correction is necessary, replace the credential free of charge.
You must provide proof of name change, such as a Marriage Certificate, official Name Change document, or other documents that shows that your name has been changed. Fill out the Credential Replacement form at the link below and fax or mail it to the address on the second page of the form. You can also bring the form into the Student Service Centre in person.
Yes, you must provide a signed letter giving us permission to release the credential to a specific person (third party). The letter must have your name, your student ID number, what you want picked up (credential), and the name of the person we can release the record to. The third party will be required to provide photo ID as proof of identification.
If your Stu-view account does not show any holds which would prevent you from viewing your grades, then we have not received your grades yet. As soon as grades are received by the Academic Records Office, the grades are available on Stu-view. Please check back a couple of days or contact your Academic Department. If you do not know who to contact, please use the link below for the Academic Department Contact information or contact the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559)
Please note your Stu-View account will remain active for one year after graduation after the last day of your last class. After this time you may request an official transcript: see Transcripts for instructions.
Please contact your academic department. If you do not have contact information, please use the link below.
Academic Department Contact information
The GPA is calculated by dividing the quality points by the GPA hours. Each letter grade has a grade point value. This is multiplied by the credits to obtain the quality points. The credits are added up to obtain the GPA hours.For Grade Point Values, see Grading SchemeExample:
COMM 1007 3 B 9 3
To calculate the term or cumulative GPA, all GPA hours (Credits) are added together and all the quality points are added together, then the quality points are divided by the GPA hours (Credits).
Total Quality Points ÷ Total GPA hour
Yes, a failed grade is calculated in the GPA hours. If you repeat the course and achieve a passing grade, the failing (or lower) grade is excluded from the GPA calculations. The passing (or higher) grade is included in the GPA calculations.
See College Policies
You have the option to repeat courses and attempt to achieve the highest grade possible. The lower grade will be excluded from your PGPA (program grade point average) and your CGPA (cumulative grade point average) calculations, and the higher grade will be included in all GPA calculations. Once you have graduated your program GPA becomes fixed at the graduation date; however, if you repeat courses after graduation your CPGA (cumulative grade point average) can be increased.
You will need to determine, via your department, if the course you wish to take is being taught and if there is space in the class. Students taking courses for the first time will be given priority for registration.
Some courses are available through continuing education. However, the continuing education calendar must show the following in the course descriptions "Full-time Equivalent(s):" in order for the course to be included in the GPA calculations. For example, COMM 1008 indicates in the continuing education calendar "Full-time Equivalent(s): COMM 1007". This means, that if you want to repeat College English, you can take this course through continuing education and it will be part of the GPA calculations.
Any elective can be taken to replace one with a lower grade. However, you will need to contact Academic Records to ensure that the lower grade elective is being excluded and the higher grade is being included in the GPA calculations. Contact Records at:
George Huang at ghuang@georgebrown.ca
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.