
Here you can check the most frequently asked questions (FAQ). Your time is important and this will help you confirm that an Entry Advising appointment is what you need. If you cannot find what you need here or want additional help, you can book an appointment with one of Entry advisors.
Our full-time program guide is posted with program descriptions, start dates, and current availability. To learn more about the program, just click on the program title. Full-time program guide.
Consult the full-time program guides below to learn which George Brown College programs are still accepting students for the upcoming academic years.
Admissions requirements depend on the program. When you are looking at the webpage for a specific program, please click on “How to qualify and Apply” to see the requirements. Full-time program guide.
The admissions office has prepared a guide to help you get started.
The International centre has prepared a guide to help you get started.
The admissions assessment determines if the program applicant has the academic skills required to start the program. The admissions assessment is taken by mature applicants who are missing some of the admissions requirements.
We welcome adult learners of all ages. The liaison department has prepared a guide to help mature students get started.
You can earn academic credit for learning you have completed through work experience, school, and life experience. This is called Prior Learning Assessment and Recognition (PLAR).
The financial aid office can assist you with this inquiry.
OSAP is a mix of grants and loans for students offered by the government of Ontario.
We have services to support students with many types of disabilities.
We provide a wide array of services for students to enrich their college experience and to provide resources to help them succeed both academically and in their personal lives.
We operate several innovative child care centres in a variety of facilities across Toronto.
With evening, weekend, day and on-line classes starting throughout the year, we make it easy to fit learning into your schedule. Continuing education courses have their own admission requirements and registration procedure.
Yes. Our school of English as a Second Language offers instruction in a state of the art of learning space in downtown Toronto.
Yes. You can improve your English in the evenings or weekends with one of our part-time certificate programs.
Career counselling services are available to registered full-time students. If you seek help in choosing a career direction we suggest you contact Employment Ontario for a referral to a trained career counsellor.
The Entry advisors do not track job market data. You might want to do some online research about the careers that you are interested in. We suggest you consider information from many sources that you are interested in. We can get you started with our online career coach.
Better Jobs Ontario (formerly Second Career) is an Ontario government program. It is a cost-sharing grant that helps laid-off workers with skills training for jobs in growing fields. Qualified applicants can receive financial help with tuition, books and supplies, transportation and living expenses associated with their education.
We have regular information sessions for Better Jobs Ontario applicants. Many of your questions will be addressed at the information session and people often benefit from the experience of other Second career applicants.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.