
T2202 forms are issued to students who have paid $100.00 or more in eligible fees for post-secondary level courses beginning and ending in a particular calendar year.
The total amount of tuition fees paid may not necessarily correspond to your T2202 because not all of your tuition fees are tax deductible. Also, the T2202 is based on the tax year (January - December) not the school year (September - April).
Fees that are not eligible include: Student Association fees, health and dental insurance, transportation and parking, meals and lodging, goods of lasting value that you will keep, such as a dental kits, uniforms, tools and costs of books.
Facilities fees, supply fees and laboratory fees are not eligible for Continuing Education students.
Tax receipts reflect a calendar year. For the year 2020, the terms included will be Winter 2019, Summer 2019, Fall 2019. If you were enrolled in Winter 2020, that receipt will be issued the following year.
You may submit the T2202 as received even if the address is incorrect. Note that it is not necessary for students to submit the T2202 form with the tax return, but they must produce it if requested by Revenue Canada.
Students must use the Tuition and Education Credit Certificate (T2202) on their own tax return until both the Federal and Provincial Tax payable is reduced to zero, after which the student may then transfer the balance of the credit to another eligible party using the reverse side of the T2202 form, as per the Income Tax Act. This requires the student's signature.
In addition to claiming tuition and ancillary fees, you are also eligible to claim $400 for each month of full-time study or $120 for each month of part-time study. A full-time month equals at least 12 contact hours per week times three (3) consecutive weeks. A part-time month equals at least 3 consecutive weeks and involves a minimum of 12 hours of instruction each month.
Students MAY NOT combine receipts from institutions to meet the minimum eligible fee as per the Income Tax Act.
In depth questions regarding the use of the T2202 form in the tax preparation process should be directed to Revenue Canada. Tax guides are available from any Revenue Canada office or a Post Office. Revenue Canada also publishes a booklet called "Students & Income Tax" - Government form P105(E).
Please note: You do NOT need to submit a printed copy of the T2202 form with your tax return, even if you decide to transfer the amount to a parent. You only need a printed copy of your T2202 if one is requested by the Canada Revenue Agency as part of a formal audit.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.