
Yes, you are required to make a minimum payment before you can register for the term:
Please refer to your invoice for payment due dates and options. Please note that the deposit due date found on your invoice is earlier than the registration dates posted on STU-VIEW.
The following methods of payment are acceptable:
Pay online using a credit card 
Log in to your STU-VIEW account and select Financial Services > Pay Fees
Pay through online/telephone banking, or in person at your bank: 
Please select "GEORGE BROWN COL.-CUR.YR.-TUITION" as the payee. Your student ID is your account number
Please note: It can take 3-5 business days for the College to receive payments made by these methods. Payments must be received by the published due date.
Pay with Aeroplan® Miles through the HigherEdPoints.com program 
George Brown College is now partnered with the HigherEdPoints.com program which allows students, family members, and friends to redeem their Aeroplan® miles to pay for their education at George Brown College.
Through this program, Aeroplan® members can redeem their miles and convert them in $250 increments to offset the cost of college. (35,000 Aeroplan® Miles = $250)
Once the transfer is received from HigherEdPoints.com, it will appear on your student account at GBC within 2-3 business days as a non-refundable cash deposit.
Please note: You can only convert Aeroplan® Miles online through HigherEdPoints.com, not at the front counter or via the other payment options.
For further details, please visit the HigherEdPoints website
If you did not receive your invoice by email, you may view your fees online by logging in to your STU-VIEW account, clicking on the Financial Services tab, and then selecting View Fees.
Alternately, please call our Contact Centre at (416) 415-2000 or 1-800-265-2002 to request an invoice and an agent will assist you.  
Important: If you did not receive an invoice by email, please check STU-VIEW to confirm the email address we have on file.
New Students: You are not guaranteed a seat in your program unless you have paid your initial deposit by the due date on your invoice. If your deposit payment is not received by the due date, you will not be able to complete your registration and you may lose your seat in the program.
Returning Students: You will not be able to register for classes unless you have paid your initial deposit by the due date on your invoice. You may still go online and view your course/section choices without having paid your deposit.
To opt out of the extended health and dental plan, please visit studentassociation.ca/health and apply to opt-out prior to the posted deadlines. Students are responsible for reading the benefits booklet, available at wespeakstudent.com
Yes, it is your responsibility to register online for all your courses, including English and math courses. You will not be automatically registered by the College, even if you have made a payment.
You must login to STU-VIEW to register for each term within the academic year:
Students in Course-Based Programs will be prompted to select individual courses (including English and math courses). Students in Block-Based Programs will be prompted to select a section of courses. It is your responsibility to ensure you are registered for all of your required courses.
If you need assistance with registration, call our Contact Centre at (416) 415-2000 or 1-800-265-2002. Please have your Student ID number ready.
Yes, you must pay the initial deposit by your due date in order to register online and hold your seat in the program (if you are a new student). Please refer to your invoice and make the minimum required payment. Once your sponsoring agency or scholarship provider has paid your fees, you will receive a refund.
If you do not wish to make a payment, you must provide the original letter from your sponsoring agency or scholarship provider confirming that fees will be paid. This letter should be provided in advance of your deposit due date. Please email registration@georgebrown.ca to submit this letter and to be registered by a member of the Registration department.
Please note: The above does not apply to the following: Canadian Scholarship Trust Plan, CPP, RESP and USC. If you are receiving monies from one of these sources the Registrar's Ofﬁce will complete and sign the necessary forms upon receipt, and forward them back to the originator. However, it is still your responsibility to pay your deposit and final fees by the due dates, even if you have not received your money.
Visit STU-VIEW to check your registration start time. Registration start dates/times are staggered by program/semester. These dates and times will be posted approximately two weeks prior to the start of web registration.
The last day to register for a program is the fifth day of the term. This is also the last day to add a course to your schedule or to switch sections (if you are in a section-based program), space permitting.
The last day to withdraw from a course (or an entire program) with a possible refund is the tenth day of the term.
The last day to withdraw from a course or an entire program without academic penalty varies depending on the length of your courses.
Please see the Important Dates webpage for exact dates.
Most students can add/drop courses online through STU-VIEW. To add/drop a course online, log in to your STU-VIEW account, then select Registration Services > Registration > Register for or change/drop courses/sections or withdraw from program. You may then select courses to add to your timetable, or de-select courses that you wish to drop from your timetable. To submit your new selection, click on the 'Submit Registration' button.
Important: It is your responsibility to ensure that your course registration is accurate. After adding/dropping courses, please check your confirmation page and/or your timetable to ensure that the correct courses have been added/withdrawn.
In some cases (i.e. for specific programs), you will be asked to seek Academic Advising from your Academic Department before dropping courses. If you cannot drop courses online, please contact your Academic Department for assistance.
If you need to add a course to your timetable that is not available to you online, you will need to contact your Academic Department. Once you consult with them, you will be set up to register for these additional courses online; please note that additional fees may apply.
Students may add courses to their timetables up until the fifth day of classes, space permitting. Students may drop courses from their timetables up until the Last Day to Drop a Course without Academic Penalty. Please see the Important Dates webpage for exact dates.
If you cannot register for any (or all) of the courses that you require online, you need a "special timetable". Please note additional fees may apply. In this case, you will have to connect with your Academic Department to complete your registration.
If you have forgotten your password—or your password has expired—please call our Contact Centre at (416) 415-2000 or 1-800-265-2002 and an agent will assist you with resetting your password. Please have your student ID number ready.
If you have already set up security questions for your account, you may reset your password by following these steps:
For assistance with registering online, please call our Contact Centre:
Our regular operating hours are as follows:
 
 
You'll be able to register, but not for courses that depend upon the results of placement testing (English and math). Therefore, the best option is to complete your placement assessment as soon as possible. The longer you wait to take the assessment, the more limited the testing seats may be.
You can book your placement test by:
Please book your placement assessment as soon as possible because appointment slots ﬁll up quickly. We recommend that you book your appointment online since STU-VIEW provides a wider selection of available testing dates. Please remember to print/save your conﬁrmed test reservation from STU-VIEW.
Due to COVID-19, the Assessment Centre will not be administering in-person assessments until further notice. However, the Assessment Centre is providing online webcam-supervised admission (mature applicant) and placement (first semester students) assessments. 
For more information, please visit the Assessment Centre website.
The best option is to complete your placement assessment as soon as possible. The longer you wait to take the assessment, the more limited the testing seats may be. You will not have a completed timetable until you have taken your placement assessment.
To complete your placement assessments online, you will need:
For more information, please visit the Assessment Centre website.
No, there are no fees charged for placement assessments.
For more information, please call the Assessment Centre at (416) 415-5000 ext. 4565 or 4992.
Yes, students with disabilities who require test accommodations must first register with Accessible Learning Services. If you are a student with a disability, you may register by visiting the Accessible Learning Services website or by calling (416) 415-5000 ext. 2622.
Once your accommodation proﬁle is sent to the Assessment Centre by your Accessible Learning Consultant, you may book your test by calling the Test Accommodation Hotline at (416) 415-5000 ext. 2624 or email the centre at booktest@georgebrown.ca.
Please note that the Assessment Centre requires 7 days' advance notice of accommodation requirements.
Your admission assessment results will be used to place you in an appropriate English and/or math course. If you wrote your admission assessment 6 months or longer before the start of your program (e.g. before the end of February for the September program intake) and your results have placed you in foundation-level courses, you are eligible to complete a placement assessment for your program. To check if you have been placed in foundation level courses, please go to STU-VIEW once the program registration is open.
It can take up to 48 hours for your assessment results to be updated on STU-VIEW. Check again in a day or so. If after 48 hours, you still see the message about having to test, please contact the Assessment Advisor at (416) 415-5000 ext. 4992.
To help you succeed, we require that you take your English and/or math assessment(s) in order to be placed in appropriate courses. It is important that you put your best effort into completing your assessment as your course placement – college or foundation level – depends on the assessment results. Should assessment results show that you need extra help succeeding in your courses, you'll be placed in foundation-level courses in your ﬁrst semester. If testing indicates you meet the minimum requirement to take college level courses, you will be able to register directly into your college-level English and/or math course.Placement testing is a requirement for most students entering George Brown College diploma and certificate programs. It is NOT an "admissions assessment"; you have already been accepted into your program.
Note: Former George Brown College students who have successfully completed the required college-level courses do not need to test.
Once you register, you will be able to see courses you have been exempted from at the bottom of your time table.
IMPORTANT! In order to help you succeed, you will be automatically placed in foundation-level courses if you do not complete your required placement assessments. This will ensure that you have the opportunity to complete all courses required for graduation.
The best option is to complete your placement assessment(s) as soon as possible. The longer you wait to take the assessment, the more limited the testing seats may be. Please see the Important Dates webpage for the last day to take placement assessments for English and/or math.
Please note: If you are required to take foundation-level courses, you will be charged additional fees when you register for your college-level course(s)—usually in semester two.
Please visit the Assessment Centre website for further information on the math and English assessments, sample questions, helpful websites and other resources. Take some time to prepare for your assessment as your course placement – college or foundation level – depends on the assessment results.
For more information about placement testing, you may:
Please note that although we strive to return phone calls and emails promptly, our response may take up to 3 business days due to a high volume of inquiries.
 
Prior to withdrawing from your program/course, you are strongly encouraged to speak to an academic advisor, counsellor, or faculty member to explore your options. In many cases, there may be an alternative to withdrawing from college altogether.
To officially withdraw from your program, you must submit a withdrawal request prior to the published deadline. Not attending classes or simply notifying the professor of your intention to withdraw is not an acceptable notification for program withdrawal. Failure to officially withdraw will result in "DNA" (Did Not Attend) or "F" grades on your final transcript.
Domestic students must submit a withdrawal request via one of the following methods:
 
Important: Once you have this email address, it should be used for all e-mail communication with the College. Any correspondence from the Registrar's office will be sent to this e-mail address. It is important that you check it regularly – particularly at the start of the term and at the end of the term.
General Collection Notice:George Brown College (the “College”) collects personal information under the authority of the Ontario Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology Act and in accordance with the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act. The College collects personal information for the purposes of administering its statutory objects and powers, programs, activities, and to carry out other services and functions. The College will secure personal information securely and use for such purposes as set out in the George Brown Notice of Collection. If you have any questions about the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information at the College, please visit Privacy Policy page. You may also contact the Privacy Office via email at privacy@georgebrown.ca.
The information contained within a student record is conﬁdential and pertains to the individual student only. It is imperative that the information on each student's record is up-to-date. This includes items such as name, address, phone number, email address, and date of birth.
If you still have more questions after reading this information, please call our Contact Centre at (416) 415-2000 or 1-800-265-2002.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.