
Attention Students: For the latest news and announcements, visit our Important Announcements page.
All domestic and international students, both new and returning, registered in any of the programs listed in the right navigation bar, are required to complete the mandatory program specific pre-placement health forms. These forms must be completed by the deadline in order for all students to be eligible for field and clinical placements during their current academic year. Failure to do so or to meet all listed requirements will result in exclusion from the program.
It is recommended that students start this process immediately upon confirmation of acceptance into the program; it may take up to 10 to 14 weeks for completion. The required health forms can be accessed by clicking on the specific program link on the right side of this page. Alternatively students may attend a scheduled information session  for additional information. Completed forms may be checked by the Pre-Placement Health Coordinator prior to being submitted to ParaMed’s Requisite Office for final approval.
Please read carefully all the specific medical requirements written on the pre-placement health form. It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that a doctor or healthcare professional properly completes, signs and stamps all health forms. If you do not have a family doctor, you may visit any Walk-in Clinic available in your area. Do not book an appointment with ParaMed’s Requisite Office until all medical requirements are completed and a healthcare professional has finalized the forms; arriving at a ParaMed appointment without the appropriate completed documents will result in charges of an additional service fee.
Some sectors continue to require proof of COVID-19 vaccination records such as in hospitals, long-term care facilities, childcare centres and other health care or community-based settings. These sectors, including learning environments at George Brown College, continue to follow public health, regulatory standards and best practices.   Please see the your program specific Prerequisite Health Form documents for more information. 
If applicable to your program, you are also responsible to arrange, pay for and complete any/all additional non-medical requirements on your own time. Additional requirements are listed on the program specific forms.
Additional fees will be uploading your completed Health Form documents to the new ParaMed Requisite Portal, Two Step-TB Skin Tests; Varicella and Hepatitis B vaccines (Doctor’s fees); Standard First Aid and BLS/CPR HCP certifications; mask fit testing; and police check application forms. All additional costs and service fees associated with the overall health form requirements are responsibility of the student.
Most of our New and Returning Community Services and Health Sciences (except ECE program) and Hospitality students will be required to create an account, submit and upload their program specific Prerequisite Health Form documents and Non-medical certificates by the given program deadline to the ParaMed Placement Pass portal. If you fail to do so, you will be excluded to be part of clinical, field, or dental placement course per semester and academic year and may lead to program withdrawal.
The ParaMed Service Fees effective on June 1st, 2023 to May 31st, 2025 (rates are subject to change)
If you have any questions or would like to book an appointment, please contact Suzette Martinuzzi, Clinical Pre-placement Coordinator via email at smartinu@georgebrown.ca, Virtual Business Hours: Monday to Friday, 9:00 am to 3:00 pm.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.