
Fully online business postgraduate programs scheduled in the evening and on weekends. Study online and develop professional skills in a year or less.
Online postgraduate certificates offer working professionals the flexibility of a fully online business program scheduled in the evening and on weekends. 
Check out our programs below to learn more.
Analytics for Business Decision Making - Online Postgraduate Program (B422)
Intake: Winter 2023Program Length: 8 monthsAdditional 4-Month Work Term: No (Includes Data Project Capstone Project)
Project Management - Online Postgraduate Program (B425)
Intake: Winter 2023Program Length: 8 monthsAdditional 4-Month Work Term: No (Includes Project Management Simulation)
Sport and Event Marketing - Online Postgraduate Program (B420)
Intake: Winter 2023Program Length: 8 monthsAdditional 4 Month Work Term: Yes
Digital Media Marketing - Online Postgraduate Program (B423)
Intake: Winter 2023Program Length: 8 monthsAdditional 4-Month Work Term: Yes
Human Resources Management - Online Postgraduate Program (B428)
Intake: Winter 2023Program Length: 8 monthsAdditional 4-Month Work Term: Yes
88% of our programs offer experiential learning or work experience – giving you the on-the-job training to succeed.
We have over 1000 industry relationships and growing. We’re located <1 km away from Toronto’s Financial District and are deeply connected to local employers.
We help you get the job. Eight out of ten Centre for Business students find employment within six months of graduation.*
You'll benefit from the real-world perspective of our faculty members, many of whom continue to work in the industry.
Find out more about the Centre for BusinessHOW TO APPLY VIEW TOURS & INFO SESSIONS* Key Performance Indicators, Colleges Ontario, 2019
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.