
Paying for your college education can be challenging. But the Indigenous Initiatives team is here to help you wade through the waters of financial assistance at George Brown College.
There are a number of assistance options available to Indigenous students, including grants, bursaries, scholarships and awards, some of which are listed below. In addition to tuition support, we also offer emergency bursaries and financial support for home visits for our indigenous students.
The Tom Janes Bursaries for Indigenous Learners funds:
For more information and assistance with any funding, scholarship or awards applications please contact Lisa Zangerl (Lisa.Zangerl@georgebrown.ca) or Indigenous.Services@georgebrown.ca
You may be eligible to receive financial assistance for the cost of your tuition fees, books and living allowances. If interested, you should contact your post-secondary education office within your First Nation to receive the necessary forms and policies (most are online).
The Métis Nation of Ontario (MNO) offers a range of support and services for the educational success of all Métis across Ontario. Recognizing the absence of dedicated post-secondary financial assistance for Métis students, MNO initiated a bursary program in 1998. The investments were made at 32 colleges and universities. Contact the financial aid office for more information.
Contact the Métis Nation of Ontario for more information on scholarships and bursaries.
Inuit students who have been residing outside of the Northwest Territories or Nunavut for 12 consecutive months could be eligible for funding through the Post-Secondary Student Support Program. Inuit students residing in these territories are eligible for funding support from their respective territorial governments.
Eligible Inuit students seeking more information on how to apply for available funding for post-secondary education should contact Mississaugas of the New Credit First Nation. Here you will find a link to the Inuit Post-Secondary funding application.
While many Indigenous students may be eligible for post-secondary education funding through their respective band, additional educational funding may be required. Here are a few websites to help you get started:
Contact our staff for more information on the application process for these awards and bursaries.
Read more information on how to apply for awards.DOWNLOAD AN APPLICATION FOR SELECT AWARDS
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.