
You can connect with the Recruitment and Advising team to learn about available programs and how you navigate the process of researching applying to college.
This page has a lot of helpful information as you begin to think about college. Here, you'll find out how to ask questions, get advice, and register for campus tours and information sessions. We've also put together some recommended resources to support you as you get started.
Domestic How to Apply
International How to Apply
Send us your question and a Recruiter will get back to you as soon as possible. 
Send your question to a Domestic Recruiter
Send questions to the International Centre and our staff will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
SUBMIT YOUR INTERNATIONAL INQUIRY
Our campus tours will help you learn more about the college, our campuses, and our programs.
Each tour is followed by a Q&A session where you can get answers to many of your questions.
Register For Campus Tour
We also offer cross-college info sessions that cover topics like how to pay for college, applying as an adult learner, and more.
Register for cross-college info sessions
We offer both program-specific sessions and international sessions.
Our academic centres deliver information sessions where applicants can go to get more details about specific George Brown Programs.
Register for Program session
Choose an info session by language and learn more about our programs, campuses, and services available to international students.
Register for international session
If you're unsure about your options or want to talk them over to get more advice on the best program for you, our program advisors are here to help.
Before meeting with an advisor you should use one of our research tools to get started -  the Program Finder tool or Career Coach are excellent resources to identify programs of interest. Once you've done that, a program advisor can work directly with you to help make decisions on next steps.
CONTACT DOMESTIC ADVISORS
CONTACT INTERNATIONAL RECRUITERS
Use Program Finder to search by program name or keyword. You'll be able to filter results by centre, school, credential type and more!
Make sure you're aware of what's required for your program before applying by checking out admissions requirements.
This tool can help you discover career options, the right programs to take, and salary expectations for the Greater Toronto Area (GTA).
Learn more about the steps to apply to a program at George Brown.
 
We value your past experience. We have transfer agreements with colleges and universities across Canada and internationally to help you get the right education to meet your career goals.
Sign up to learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown and you'll have a chance to win $5,000 towards tuition!
Sign up now
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.