
Located in the heart of the city, our campuses allow you to experience the multiculturalism that Toronto has to offer. Whether you're exploring city neighbourhoods or meeting classmates on campus, you'll be studying and interacting with people from around the world. With nearly 30% of our student population made up of international students, you'll have the unique opportunity to learn in a culturally diverse environment while experiencing life in Canada and preparing for your career afterwards.
We want to help our students become the best they can be. That's why we recruit the best talent and professionals when it comes to faculty and college employees. We have teams dedicated to student services to ensure you receive the support you need as you make Canada your home.
Join us and take the next steps in your education and towards success!
Application process
Apply Now
See the more than 150 career-focused programs offered that we’ve developed with industry professionals and choose the one that’s right for you.
Learn more about our application cycle, when to apply, how to submit an application, and what to do if you receive an offer.
Admission requirements differ significantly depending on your country of origin as well as the credential that you wish to pursue. Find out what's needed for your country.
We value your past experience. We have transfer agreements with colleges and universities across Canada and internationally to help you get the right education to meet your career goals. 
We make sure you have everything you need to study and enjoy your time with us. From a place to stay to internet access, find out more about what accommodations we offer.
Join us for an upcoming information session to learn more about the college. Select your info session by nationality or language and make sure to register.
Experiential learning helps you learn what's expected in the Canadian workforce and provides much-needed Canadian experience for your resume should you choose to stay after graduation.
Need to work on your English languages skills? Our English for Academic Purposes (EAP) program is divided into 9 levels. Each level is designed to help improve your English skills, so you’re prepared for future post-secondary study and employment.
Still looking for more information? Download a copy of our viewbook in your language of choice and learn more about becoming a student at George Brown College.
If you have questions, we recommend you book a virtual one-on-one meeting with a George Brown recruitment representative that specializes in your country of origin.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.