
The George Brown College community gathered to observe the National Day of Remembrance and Action Against Gender-based Violence. December 6 marks the anniversary of the date in 1989 when 14 women were murdered at Montreal’s École Polytechnique. The victims were targeted for studying in the then male-dominated field of engineering. 
We also acknowledge the thousands of missing and murdered Indigenous women and girls across Canada, and the recent horrific stabbing of a professor and students in a Gender Studies class at the University of Waterloo on June 28, 2023. 
The Office of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services (OAREHRS) and the Assaulted Women and Children’s Counsellor/Advocate (AWCCA) program hosted the December 6 event at St. James Campus. Toronto Mayor Oliva Chow, who taught the Feminist Political Action course in the AWCCA program for six years, delivered the keynote address. GBC President Dr. Gervan Fearon and Community Services and Health Sciences Dean Patricia Chorney Rubin also spoke at the event. 
“Everyone at GBC is responsible for fostering an inclusive environment that is free of harassment and discrimination—an environment where all women, Trans, and gender non-binary individuals can learn and contribute as their full selves,” Dr. Fearon said. 
The AWCCA program is the only program of its kind in Canada, and for more than 30 years has been preparing students to support survivors of gender-based violence. Two current students were recognized for their achievements at the December 6 event. 
Geneviève Bergeron 
Hélène Colgan 
Nathalie Croteau 
Barbara Daigneault 
Anne-Marie Edward 
Maud Haviernick 
Maryse Laganière 
Maryse Leclair 
Anne-Marie Lemay 
Sonia Pelletier 
Michèle Richard 
Annie St-Arneault 
Annie Turcotte 
Barbara Klucznik-Widajewicz 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.