
As home costs soar in Canada's cities, George Brown College is among a growing number of schools looking to put shovels in the ground for staff housingToronto StarPhoto: GBCDate: January 1, 2024
In a city where home prices have proven merciless and few on a five-figure salary can afford to rent or buy a home on their own, it's not just students and graduates having a tough time affording a place in Toronto. George Brown College is floating the idea of building its first homes for staff and faculty in the coming years after its housing task force, created earlier in 2023, found faculty were feeling the pinch of unaffordability as well. "We're looking towards planning 20 to 30 years in advance," said Joe Cressy, senior vice-president of external relations, communications and real estate development at George Brown.
Why student housing may be key to unlocking Toronto's waterfrontToronto StarPhoto: GBCDate: December 18, 2023
On a chilly lunch hour recently, I took a stroll along the waterfront. George Brown College president Gervan Fearon wanted to show off the college’s newest real estate acquisition — an acquisition that now makes the college one of the largest establishments on the lakefront. Following its reported $233-million purchase of the Corus Quay building at 25 Dockside Dr. in partnership with Halmont Properties announced last week, Fearon told me, the college is now second only to Harbourfront Centre when it comes to its frontage on the waterfront. In addition to the newly purchased Corus building — best known, to me anyway, for the big slide in the lobby — the college also owns or has space in two other major buildings along Queens Quay East, with another opening soon.
Barbados PM Confirms Commitment to University College of Barbados; Announces Partnership with George Brown CollegeBNN BreakingPhoto: GBCDate: December 17, 2023In a momentous address at the Barbados Community College (BCC) 55th Anniversary Gala, the Prime Minister of Barbados, Mia Amor Mottley, reaffirmed the government’s unwavering commitment to the establishment of a Barbados-owned tertiary education institution, the University College of Barbados (USB). The Prime Minister underlined that the creation of the USB is a crucial priority for her administration, viewed as an essential step to bolster the efficiency and delivery of post-secondary and tertiary education in the country. In related news, George Brown College announced a transformative partnership with the Ministry of Education, Technological and Vocational Training in Barbados.
George Brown College is expanding its Toronto campus. Here's howToronto StarPhoto: GBCDate: December 13, 2023
George Brown College announced today that it has purchased the Corus Quay building to expand its Toronto waterfront campus. The joint real-estate venture, with equity partner Halmont Properties, will add 25 Dockside Dr. to the college’s growing portfolio on the eastern waterfront. “We did a master plan in 2014 and this was part of our master-plan process, thinking of the future of George Brown College on the waterfront,” said Gervan Fearon, the college’s president. “This will solidify George Brown’s position as Ontario’s urban college.”
2023 Structural Engineering Excellence AwardsStructure MagazinePhoto: GBCDate: December 1, 2023The National Council of Structural Engineers Associations (NCSEA) is pleased to publish the 2023 Excellence in Structural Engineering (SEE) Awards winners. The 10-story Limberlost Place is located on George Brown College’s Toronto waterfront campus and holds the distinction of being Ontario’s first tall timber institutional building. It showcases a harmonious blend of sustainable design, structural innovation, and an advanced prefabricated envelope system. Fast + Epp developed a groundbreaking large span beamless CLT timber-concrete composite “slab band” system, accompanied by perpendicular CLT infill panels, supported on glulam columns. The unique “slab-banded” system enables architectural flexibility and unobstructed mechanical distribution. Limberlost Place has become a beacon for the mass timber movement. 
How 3 strangers are helping refugees start new lives in CanadaCBC RadioPhoto: Shams ErfanDate: November 25, 2023
When Shams Erfan arrived in Toronto in March of 2022, it marked the end of nearly eight years spent in political limbo in Indonesia — much of it in prison-like detention centres. "When a Canadian immigration officer stamped my permanent residency paper and told me, 'Welcome to Canada,' I felt human. I felt reborn," Erfan, a refugee originally from Afghanistan, told the CBC's Alisa Siegel. Erfan has since become a PEN Canada writer-in-residence at Toronto's George Brown College. He also works with Watt at Northern Lights Canada, Watt's nonprofit group dedicated to assisting refugees hoping to come to Canada — often with financial help from Faine.
George Brown students craft gingerbread delights in annual competitionBakers JournalPhoto: Bakers JournalDate: November 25, 2023
George Brown College showcased a high calibre of student talent – and a high number of entries – at its annual gingerbread house contest, held in person in the college’s Atrium. Professor and chef Sue Fleming, who organized the annual event, said students in the baking and pastry arts programs were tasked with creating a gingerbread house inspired by their interpretation of Main Street. Madeleine Sooklal took home top honours and a $2,000 prize for her intricate Royal Alexandra Theatre in Toronto, inspired by the memorable shows she’s seen over the years as depicted in the show posters on the building’s exterior.
Disclaimer: Links to media sites are not active indefinitely. Please note that this page features links to websites owned and operated by third parties. These links are provided for your information and convenience only and are not an endorsement by George Brown College of the content of such linked websites or third parties. The college is not responsible for the quality, accuracy, reliability, completeness, currency, timeliness, or fitness for any purpose of the information featured by external sources. Content provided by third parties is not subject to college standards or requirements regarding accessibility.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.