
The General Arts and Science (GAS) program helps develop critical thinking, communication and research skills while exploring Liberal Arts and Science courses. These valuable skills are essential to the workplace as well as college and university studies in Liberal Arts and Humanities, with possibilities for transfer credits. At George Brown College, we offer both a one-year certificate and a two-year diploma.
If you are looking to broaden or clarify your educational options, improve academic/communication skills, and develop analytic and critical thinking skills, you may want to consider the one-year General Arts & Science certificate program. This is ideal for students seeking clarity about future educational pathways at college or university. Students who complete the certificate program are eligible to proceed directly into the second year of the General Arts & Science diploma program.
If one of your goals is to continue onto a higher-level post-secondary institute, the General Arts & Science diploma program may be better suited for you, providing you with at least a year’s worth of transfer credits. The first year of the course is identical to the one-year General Arts & Science certificate program. Over the course of the second year, you will explore liberal studies in a post-secondary program and develop university-level academic skills.
Are you interested in pursuing another program at George Brown? You can view our transfer guide to learn more about transferring programs within the college.
View Transfer Guide
Through transfer agreements and institution partnerships, graduates of this George Brown College program may be eligible for advanced standing transfer credits at various post-secondary institutions.
University of Waterloo
Graduates of the R101 diploma program with a program GPA of 3.0 may be eligible for admission to the Honours Bachelor of Arts program at the University of Waterloo with up to 9.5 transfer credits – that’s almost half of the four-year degree!
Transfer to University of Waterloo
University of Toronto
Graduates with a program GPA of 3.0 or higher may be eligible for admission to the Faculty of Arts and Science at the University of Toronto with 6.0 transfer credits. Eligible students also will have the opportunity to enrol in spring/summer course(s) at U of T, after completing Semester 2 and earn additional course credits towards their degree.
Transfer to University of Toronto
Brittany Barber returned to Canada after living in the United States for 13 years to attend the General Arts and Science program at George Brown College. After completing high school, she had no idea where to begin looking for a post-secondary education. She took a leap and moved back to Canada after finding out that a university preparatory program would allow her to earn transfer credits towards a degree. She plans to attend university after graduation and hopes to eventually earn a Master's of Communication. She aspires to become a travel writer and author.
This program has helped me shape my priorities and become a responsible person. In addition to learning the course content, you learn a whole hidden set of underlying skills that are extremely beneficial. This program has helped me surpass my limits and approach new challenges with confidence.”
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.