
The Electives Office Virtual Service Desk is now OPEN!  Speak with one of our team members during virtual office hours:
Join the queue
Monday to Friday: 9 a.m. – 12 p.m. and 1 p.m. – 4 p.m. (subject to change without notice)
Alternatively, contact us via email:
The English and Communications Office Virtual Service Desk is now OPEN! Speak with one of our team members during virtual office hours:
Join the queue
Monday to Friday: 1 p.m. – 4 p.m. (subject to change without notice)
Alternatively, contact us at: comm@georgebrown.ca
Categories
Course codes for Diploma & Certificate programs
Course codes for Degree programs
Arts and Humanities
GHUM / *ISHU
LHUM / *ILHU
Science and Technology
GSCI / ISSC
LSCI / ILSC
Social Science
GSSC / ISSS
LSSC / ILSS
*IS = Indigenous Studies. For example, ISHU1035 is an indigenous studies humanities course.
General Education and Liberal Studies courses are NOT your program-related electives. Your program-specific electives/options will have different course codes.
Please log into Degree Works to see how many general education or liberal studies courses you need to take, and in which semesters.
Students are required to take general education or liberal studies courses from at least two of the three categories in order to satisfy the breadth requirement which is part of the GBC policy.
Asynchronous learning does not occur in the same place or at the same time. Teachers and students do not need to be available at any particular time or day. Resources will be available on Brightspace, usually with instructions to complete weekly modules.
Synchronous online learning occurs at the same time. The teacher and students will meet online, on Zoom, and will interact with each other in real time. Students should plan to be available at the scheduled class times. Although classes are scheduled for three hours, the Zoom sessions will likely take up only some of that time. Students will also need to do work independently.
Hybrid learning combines asynchronous sessions and synchronous sessions. Teachers will provide more instructions for each course.
On campus
The Continuing Education courses listed below are accepted as credit towards the General Education Elective requirements of most diploma and certificate programs.
Other courses in the Continuing Education catalogue (even those listed under Liberal Arts and Sciences) do NOT qualify for a General Education elective credit.
General Education Electives Offered Through Continuing Education Winter 2024
Liberal Studies Electives Offered Through Continuing Education Winter 2024
Students may register for approved ConEd courses directly on ConEd’s website or by sending an inquiry to the Continuing Education Registration department.
**Note: Taking a course out of your program pathway/schedule may result in changes in your tuition. Please contact the registration office if you have questions regarding your student account.
Courses will be listed in the block below your mandatory program courses on your STU-VIEW Registration Page once registration opens for your program.
Check your Registration Start Date/Time on STU-VIEW 
Another option for taking General Elective courses is through the Continuing Education department. These courses do not contribute to your course load and do not qualify for OSAP, but they do count as credit towards General Elective requirements in a full-time program. Click here to view General Elective courses that are offered through the Continuing Education department. If a course is open and available, you can register for the course now. Please note that you will have to pay for the course at the time of registering. Please note the Program Exclusions column to ensure that you do not register for a course that will not be accepted as an elective for your program. Also be sure to check Degree Works to make sure you are selecting a course that contributes to the college’s breadth requirement, which requires that you take general education courses from at least 2 of the 3 categories.
If you are registered in an online elective, you will access your course through Brightspace, George Brown College’s learning management tool.
To log on to Brightspace for the first time, go to the George Brown College homepage and click the “Current Students” link. On the dropdown menu, select “Websites, Apps & Tech Support.” Next select “D2L - Brightspace” 
Follow the instructions on the “Brightspace Login Help” page to learn how to log on for the first time and to learn about resetting your password.
If you’ve logged in before and are familiar with Brightspace, you can go to the direct link learn.georgebrown.ca to log in.
If you’ve never used Brightspace before or taken an online course, please take some time to review the various help links and video tutorials.
If you have any problems logging on after following the instructions on the links above, please contact GBC helpdesk: helpdesk@georgebrown.ca, phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4357.
Be sure to include your full name, student number, course name, course code, CRN with a description of your problem.
Online course(s) are available the first week of classes. Once your online course appears, please log in and review the complete contents of any Getting Started or Welcome Start Here folders. Be sure to make note of required assignments, discussions, tests, any other activities and their due dates.
Courses will include an Announcements link on the left menu. Be sure to review the announcements posted there. Announcements may also be sent out in email. That means you need to access your GBC email regularly.
Most courses will be organized with Weekly Learning Modules. Read and review the contents of the Week 1 module and complete any activities required during the first week of class. If you have any questions about your online course, contact your professor using the email/message system inside Brightspace or post a question on one of the discussion forums provided inside your course.
The Electives and Communication Virtual Service Desk is now OPEN! Join the queue and speak with one of our team members during office hours:Monday to Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.​​​​​Connect to the Virtual Service Desk
Our staff are online during regular business hours, Monday to Friday, 9am to 4pm.
Please use only one of the following methods to contact us and please include your student ID.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.