
Students in diploma programs are required to take three General Education courses. General Education courses are grouped into three broad categories:
In some diploma programs, there is a mandated General Education courses (in other words, a General Education course that the program has decided all students must take), and the remaining courses are electives. Students must take General Education courses from at least two of the three categories (listed above) in order to graduate. This is called the General Education breadth requirement.
Check the specific General Education elective requirements for your program.
Each program selects specific semesters in which students are scheduled to take General Education electives. If there is an elective scheduled in your current semester, the courses will be listed in the block below your mandatory program courses.
Stu-View is updated in real time.
Register for your program courses. Once you have your timetable, fill out one of the forms under Electives Registration, Section C.
Note: There may be an additional fee to take the course if you are taking it out of sequence. The registration date for out-of-sequence electives is delayed and is not at the same time as web registration.
If you have completed General Education or Liberal Studies courses at another post-secondary institution and you earned a grade of 60% or higher, you might be eligible for exemption from one or more of your electives.
Please submit an inquiry form or contact our Virtual Service Desk.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.