
At George Brown College, students in diploma programs are required to take four General Education courses. General Education courses are grouped into three broad categories: Arts and Humanities (coded as GHUM or *ISHU), Social Science (coded as GSSC or ISSS) and Science and Technology (coded as GSCI or ISSC). (*IS = Indigenous Studies. For example, ISHU1035 is an indigenous studies humanities course.)
According to college policy, students must take General Education courses from at least two of the three categories in order to graduate. This is policy is called the General Education breadth requirement. Students are responsible for ensuring that the General Education electives they register in fulfill the breadth requirement.
In most diploma programs, there are one or two mandated General Education courses (in other words, General Education courses that the program has decided all students must take), and the remaining two or three courses are electives. If your program's mandated General Education courses are from the same category (e.g. both GSSC), you must choose at least one elective from a different category in order to fulfill the breadth requirement. To learn more about the specific General Education requirements for students in your program, click the link to the information about your School or Centre below.
Students in certificate programs are also required to take General Education courses, but the breadth requirement does not apply. To learn more about the specific General Education requirements for students in your program, click the link to the information about your School or Centre below.
The content of some General Education electives may be similar to that of required courses in your program. Although we have made every effort to identify electives that overlap with program content, it is the students' responsibility to ensure that they do not take General Education electives that repeat curriculum in the program area.
Please read the General Education course descriptions before you register for your electives to make sure the courses you select do not duplicate the content of your program courses.
Please note that program-mandated General Education courses cannot be used toward General Education elective requirements.
For specific requirements, please visit the General Education Requirements page.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.