
Learn about the work George Brown College is doing to help address Toronto’s housing crisis.
VIEW REPORT
As a post-secondary education institution rooted in downtown Toronto, George Brown College (GBC) is uniquely positioned to help address the city’s unprecedented housing crisis.
The lack of housing, particularly affordable housing, affects people across the Greater Toronto Area, including many members of the GBC community. We recognize that without action, this issue will make it increasingly difficult to attract and retain students and employees and support their well-being and academic and professional success. 
Our efforts on the housing front tie directly to work on our Campus Master Plan process.
“We know the housing crisis won’t be solved by George Brown College alone. However, we can contribute to a broader comprehension of the problem and do our part in exploring new opportunities as well as solutions.” - GBC President Dr. Gervan Fearon
George Brown College launched an internal Housing Task Force in February 2023 to research and define the scope of the student and employee housing crisis. In November 2023, GBC unveiled the results of the first phase of that work, underscoring the significant demand for safe and affordable housing for the college's students and employees. 
Working with the college community, consultants and external partners, the Housing Task Force will move toward meaningful actions and solutions while evaluating GBC's assets to find solutions to the problems at hand. This includes a deep dive to understand the housing needs of the GBC community.
George Brown College will continue active and ongoing engagement with governments and peers in higher education to influence the direction of policy and talk with a variety of potential partners and housing and affordability experts. 
Toronto's housing affordability crisis and housing shortage negatively affect student learning and well-being. We surveyed GBC students, and the 770 responses we received indicated that high housing costs result in students working longer hours to pay rent, experiencing longer commute times as they move further out of the city to find cheaper housing options, and heightened concerns, particularly among international students, about housing safety. Read the full Housing Task Force Progress and Initial Findings report to learn more.
VIEW the report
The average asking rent for a new lease on a two-bedroom apartment in Toronto in September 2023 was $3,411/month, according to Rentals.ca.
"We know that our students, employees and community struggle to find affordable housing, and we understand how vital safe and affordable housing is to success. That is why we have embarked on this critical housing initiative." - Joe Cressy, GBC's Senior Vice President of External Relations, Communications, and Real Estate Development. 
 
 
"George Brown College is working to find opportunities to create new housing, alongside the work of other partners in government and the private and non-profit sectors." - Michelle McCollum, Vice President, Facilities and Sustainability, George Brown College.  
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.