
George Brown College joined a growing list of post-secondary institutions on November 18, signing a charter designed to help fight anti-Black racism on campuses across the country.
The Scarborough Charter is a 22-page document that identifies key barriers to Black inclusion and outlines concrete ways Canadian colleges and universities can address anti-Black racism.
“The principles outlined in the charter will guide us as we take meaningful action to address systemic racism and build a more inclusive and equitable community in which to work and learn,” says George Brown President, Gervan Fearon. “Our Anti-Racism Action plan at George Brown will be an important step in supporting a pathway to change and will outline the foundational steps to move the college forward. Building an inclusive society means working together and the Charter represents a component of this effort.”
For first-year Social Service Worker student Bronwen Boals, the signing of the Scarborough Charter signals a commitment to address systemic inequities on campus.
“I hope that students and staff at George Brown start to acknowledge and understand some of the struggles that people of colour may go through on a daily basis,” says Boals. “Many black students feel that the system is working against them, and they have no one to turn to. This is a step in the right direction.”
Boals says President Fearon’s participation in the Charter’s creation and signing makes her feel like someone is listening to Black voices on campus.
“President Gervan Fearon signing the Scarborough Charter makes me feel heard at George Brown. Growing up in a small town with very little diversity, it is refreshing to come to a place where Black voices finally make their way into the conversation. People of colour at George Brown College are finally making their stories heard, and I am proud to be a part of this community.”
Learn more about the Scarborough Charter
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.