
Congratulations on becoming a George Brown College graduate! You completed your program under extraordinary circumstances, and we are so proud of all you've achieved!
We look forward to staying connected with you and following you along your journey, sharing in your success and achievements along the way!
Sign-up for the alumni newsletter!
The Alumni Relations Concierge, Julia Huynh, is ready to support you. Reach out to Julia to find out about the services, benefits, and resources available to you!
Please send your queries to globalalumni@georgebrown.ca.
Follow us on LinkedIn for more updates!
George Brown alumni make incredible contributions to companies, communities, and individuals every day. You are an important member of a network of George Brown graduates that is more than 280,000 strong and growing every year.
Keep the connections that you have made here alive and make new ones through the alumni network.
Connect with us
George Brown College Alumni Relations: 2023 in Review & Cheers to 2024!
Explore our vibrant initiatives in 2023, celebrating alumni success and anticipating exciting milestones in the upcoming year.
George Brown Alumni
organizations on GBCareers.
alumni with multiple George Brown College credentials.
We can help you stay connected, build networking relationships and continue to develop your career through our dedicated services for alumni. 
Take advantage of exclusive alumni privileges with special rates negotiated on your behalf to help you save money.
George Brown College believes in life-long career development to help you maintain your professional edge. Through our free career webinars, we give you the opportunity to learn from industry experts about a wide range of professional topics.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.