
A $600,000 donation from The Daniels Corporation will fund a multi-purpose learning space at George Brown College’s exciting new capital project Limberlost Place. The Waterfront Campus expansion project is currently under construction and is set to open in the summer of 2024.  
The three-storey learning space in the new building will be named the Daniels Learning Landscape in honour of the gift. Limberlost Place will house the School of Architectural Studies and the School of Computer Technology, as well as a childcare space, an area dedicated to Truth and Reconciliation, and the Brookfield Sustainability Institute (BSI) dedicated to solving problems posed by climate change.  
The Daniels Corporation’s President and CEO Mitchell Cohen formally announced the donation at a cheque presentation ceremony at the Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences at Waterfront Campus on April 26.  
“The Daniels Corporation is proud to contribute to Limberlost Place,” Cohen said. “We are thrilled to support this innovative centre for excellence in urban development, preparing students to drive change, build prosperity and create a sustainable future.” 
Dr. Cindy Gouveia, VP Advancement, George Brown College and President, George Brown College Foundation remarked, “The Daniels Corporation’s generous gift is set to have a tangible, positive effect on the students, faculty and community that will engage with Limberlost Place for years to come. This is testament to the company’s thought leadership as it relates to the development of Toronto’s human capital.”   
Limberlost Place is poised to become the first institutional building of its kind in Ontario. The 10-storey mass-timber structure will be a model of green construction and will produce as much energy as it uses by harnessing renewable energy from the surrounding environment (solar and deep-water cooling).    
“I extend my sincerest thanks to the Daniels Corporation for this generous gift,” said George Brown College President Dr. Gervan Fearon. “Limberlost Place will provide an exciting and innovative environment for our community and at its heart will be the Daniels Learning Landscape — a hub where students can connect, collaborate and study."  
PHOTO (L-R) Mitchell Cohen, CEO The Daniels Corporation; Christine Mattear, Vice President, The John & Myrna Daniels Foundation; Dr. Gervan Fearon, President, George Brown College; Dr. Cindy Gouveia, President, The George Brown College Foundation; Nerys Rau, Project Director, Limberlost Place.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.