
The City is our Classroom
With more than 200 programs, we have one that's right for you. Get real-world experience for real life and take advantage of everything our location in downtown Toronto has to offer!
Learn more
Get a Feel for Life At GBC
Register for a campus tour or program information session and get a glimpse of student life at George Brown College. If you are having trouble choosing a program, our entry advisors can help.
Get started
Level up your career
Build on your previous education and gain real-world experience with one of George Brown College's postgraduate programs. Check out flexible in-person and online options.
View our programs
We have events planned for new and returning students to help you navigate the college and manage your money. Check out our college service fairs this month and the FREE financial literacy workshops happening throughout the semester. 
Get tips and advice to make the most of your student experience at George Brown College with the MyGBC Podcast — everything from getting better grades to improving your sleep.
Prepare for an exciting career in digital production for film, television, online video, and virtual platforms with the Animation – 3D for Extended Reality diploma program. 
Want to share your thoughts about how GBC grows its physical footprint and strengthens its connections to the surrounding city? Now's your chance!
More than 100 students received food hampers distributed by the Student Nutrition Access Program, or SNAP, run by the Student Association of George Brown College.
Dr. Fearon is recognized for his leadership in providing “transformative education opportunities that benefit learners, industry and the greater community” and for his “vision for equity, inclusion and community empowerment.”
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.