
A national honour for George Brown College Chancellor Noella Milne gave the college community an exciting start to 2024. 
Canada’s Governor General Mary Simon recently announced the 2023 Order of Canada recipients, with Milne appointed as a member. Milne will be celebrated and receive her insignia at a ceremony at a later date. 
Milne’s story serves as an inspiration to many in the George Brown College community and beyond. She moved to Canada alone from Mumbai, India, at 17 and put herself through university and law school. She is a senior partner at Borden Ladner Gervais LLP and mentors young lawyers and women through the Women's Executive Network (WXN) and the Children's Aid Society. 
Learn more about Chancellor Milne
A longtime champion of George Brown College, Milne's efforts reflect the Order of Canada's motto of "Desiderantes meliorem patrium (They desire a better country)." She shows this as chancellor, promoting the college's vision for the future and its role in the community and celebrating student success by presiding over convocation ceremonies. Before she became chancellor in 2019, Milne served consecutive terms on the Board of Governors (2003-2009) and the Foundation Board (2010-2018). She also launched the Lorna D'Souza Scholarship for students with financial need, named in honour of her late sister. 
“I would like to thank Chancellor Milne for her dedication to supporting student success and excellence in post-secondary education through her role at George Brown College. We are immensely proud of her accomplishments and induction into the Order of Canada,” said George Brown College President Dr. Gervan Fearon. 
Milne is an honorary director of the Canadian Club and has served with many organizations, including the Order of Ontario Advisory Council, as the Chair of UNICEF Canada, and as a member of the boards of directors for St. Michael's Hospital, the Children's Aid Society of Toronto, the Ontario Science Centre, and others.  
The Order of Canada is among the many honours Milne has received, which include the Order of Ontario, a Queen's Diamond Jubilee Medal, a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Children's Aid Society, and an RBC Top 25 Immigrant Award, among others. The WXN recognized her as one of Canada's Top 100 Most Powerful Women. 
George Brown College President Dr. Gervan Fearon was recently appointed to the Order of Ontario for his leadership in providing “transformative education opportunities that benefit learners, industry and the greater community.” 
George Brown College Guiding Elder Pauline Shirt was among the 2022 appointees to the Order of Ontario in recognition of her more than half a century as a champion and pioneer of Indigenous education. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.