George Brown College
Impact Report 2018–2019

            As technological advances transform Ontario’s labour market, George Brown College is preparing the
            innovative,
            adaptable graduates our province needs to fill emerging jobs in new sectors. Blending theory with
            experiential learning,
            applied research and entrepreneurship opportunities, our programs deliver the skills industry needs most —
            both now and
            into the future — and prepare learners to thrive in a world of rapid change.
        

            Our three campuses anchor neighbourhoods throughout Toronto, supporting the growth of our city and the
            success of its
            diverse communities. George Brown is integral to the social and economic success of Ontario.
        

                A strong economy requires a highly skilled workforce. George Brown programs are developed in
                consultation with industry and designed to meet the rapidly changing needs of the labour market. We
                connect employers to top talent, train and retrain students to meet evolving industry needs, and help
                fill critical vacancies across the GTA and beyond.
            

                To ensure a smooth transition into the labour market, we’ve made experiential learning a top priority.
                George Brown students have meaningful access to industry through work-integrated learning opportunities,
                industry projects, interactive simulations, capstone projects and more, enabling them to develop the
                technical skills and soft skills employers value most.
            
*Excludes upgrading and preparatory programs.
These experiences matter greatly to our community:
Nearly  2/3 of students said the opportunity to get work experience is what makes
                    George Brown stand out from other colleges and universities.[6]
George Brown students completed work or study abroad experiences
                    in
gaining valuable international experience.[7]

                            Self-awareness, self-regulation, stress management, resilience, interpersonal
                            communication,
                            empathy, social responsibility, openness and adaptability to cultural and other
                            diversity,
                            collaborative teamwork.
                        

                            Flexibility, resilience, initiative, creativity, entrepreneurship, openness to continual
                            lifelong learning.
                        

                            Analytical and critical thinking, complex problem-solving, insight, resourcefulness,
                            novel and adaptive thinking, data, digital and media literacy.
                        

                As one of Ontario’s top research colleges, we support small and medium-sized businesses in accessing the
                expertise, equipment and funding support they need to develop innovative products and services. Working
                with students and employees in state-of-the-art facilities, our partners conduct applied research
                projects ranging from food and beverage development to sustainable construction, while helping prepare
                job-ready graduates with the skills to innovate and lead.
            
in applied research funding received this year.
industry contributions
external grant funding
institutional funds
partners worked with us to design, prototype or test new products and services
micro businesses
large businesses
small and medium-sized enterprises
including
start-ups
partners worked with us to design, prototype or test new products and services
micro businesses
small and medium-sized enterprises
large businesses
including
start-ups
prototypes
new products
new services
were developed with support from our applied research teams.[8]
partners worked with us to design, prototype or test new products and services
micro businesses
small and medium-sized enterprises
large businesses
including
start-ups
prototypes
new products
new services
were developed with support from our applied research teams.[9]

                At George Brown, we see entrepreneurship as a powerful way for students and graduates to build new
                skills, bring their creative ideas to life and prepare for success in the innovation economy. Our
                entrepreneurship hub, startGBC, offers a dedicated co-working space, mentorship opportunities, workshops
                and other resources for participants from all areas of study.
            

                    startGBC clients brought
                
224 new products to market

                    launched
                
49 new services

                    and incorporated
                
10 new companies

                of students want to develop their entrepreneurship skills, and they’re finding the support they need at
                George Brown.[11]


                students were engaged through entrepreneurship-related
                workshops, outreach events and
                activities this year.[12]

George Brown courses teach entrepreneurship and small
                business management skills.

                Students come to George Brown at all ages and stages, from varied social, cultural and economic
                backgrounds. We’re committed to making post-secondary education accessible to all, through pathway
                programs and support services that meet the unique needs of our diverse learning community.
            
raised more than
in revenue for scholarships, capital and special projects.
disbursed more than
scholarships worth
These scholarships and projects were made possible by the generosity of our
            donors.

                Our campuses are woven into the fabric of Toronto’s diverse communities, with many students providing
                services to our neighbours as part of their experiential learning. As the college grows, we’re helping
                our city grow – both by anchoring new communities along Toronto’s waterfront and by educating a new
                generation of nurses, early childhood educators, entrepreneurs, construction managers, chefs,
                gerontology workers, business and community leaders, volunteers and more.
            

                        community members supported by our student-operated health and wellness clinics and
                        childcare centres.[17]

audience members attended our theatre
                            productions.[18]
transactions completed at our
                        student-operated restaurants: The Chefs' House, 
                        The Café, 
                        Chef on the Run.
                        [19]
sales made at our fashion and design stores: IN Store, 
                        City Uptown, City Downtown.[20]
 spa services provided by our 
                        
                            School of Makeup and Esthetics.
[21]

                            This year, we expanded our Waterfront Campus with a new School of Design facility,
                            adding more
                            than 100,000 square feet of hands-on learning and industry research space. As the home of our
                            Innovation Exchange — a living lab that tests commercial ideas, concepts and user functionality
                            — this state-of-the-art facility is preparing students to become the design leaders of tomorrow,
                            while helping businesses adapt to digital disruption and the smart economy.
                        

                        This year, we expanded our Waterfront Campus with a new School of Design facility,
                        adding more
                        than 100,000 square feet of hands-on learning and industry research space. As the home of our
                        Innovation Exchange — a living lab that tests commercial ideas, concepts and user functionality
                        — this state-of-the-art facility is preparing students to become the design leaders of tomorrow,
                        while helping businesses adapt to digital disruption and the smart economy.
                    

                            In 2021, we’ll grow again with the construction of Ontario’s first mass-timber, low-carbon
                            institutional building. The Arbour will be home to our School of Computer Technology, School of
                            Architectural Studies, a childcare centre and a research hub focused on mass-timber
                            construction. The modern, sustainable design by Moriyama & Teshima Architects and Acton Ostry
                            Architects is already being recognized for its innovation:
                        
Sustainability Prize at the 2019 MIPIM/Architectural Review Future Project Awards
First Award in the Institutional Concept category at Rethinking the Future’s 2018 Architecture,
                                    Construction & Design Awards
2018 Canadian Architect Award of Excellence



                        full-time students (including 922 apprentices)


                        part-time students
                    

                        Continuing Education registrations
                    
Including:
Including:
Including:
Including:
Including:
Including:
Including:
George Brown was named one of Greater Toronto's Top 100 Employers for 2019.
This Impact Report was designed by Graphic Design student Lee Jong
                    and Interaction Design and Development student Gwen Chiasson,
                    as part of the experiential learning initiative at George Brown’s IN design studio. 