
George Brown College has created a space dedicated to promoting pathways and opportunities that lead to the future success of Black students at George Brown.  
The Black Futures Hub, located at the Daniels Waterfront – City of the Arts building at Waterfront Campus, will provide space for Black and racialized students to connect, access programming, collaborate, and innovate. Celebrating Black entrepreneurship, art and design is also a key element of the hub. 
“Design has the power to unify, transcend systemic barriers, and amplify the voices of those who have not been given the platform they deserve,” said Dr. Ana Rita Morais, Chair of the School of Design. “To have the Black Futures Hub located at the Daniels Waterfront — City of the Arts campus, which is home the School of Design, underscores our commitment to celebrate excellence within the Black community and to provide a safe, accessible, and inclusive physical space where Black students and staff can plan, foster, and deliver a robust program of activity. It is an honour to share a space with this critical new Hub, and we look forward to celebrating the many achievements of our community as allies and partners.” 
The hub is on the second floor of the Daniels building in room 224.  Hub participants will also have access to amenities throughout the building that houses GBC’s School of Design.  
Contact Office of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services Director Jennifer Grant at gjennife@georgebrown.ca to learn more about how to get involved. 
Celebrating student and employee achievements will also be an important part of hub activities. We plan on hosting award ceremonies and highlighting our community’s efforts in advancing anti-racism and equity, diversity and inclusion at GBC. 
We’re excited to welcome students to the hub and kick-off activities when it’s safe to do so and with health and safety protocols in place. We’re also looking forward to future possibilities, including forging deeper connections between Black and racialized students at GBC and our industry and community partners. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.