
George Brown College President Dr. Gervan Fearon has been appointed to the Order of Ontario for his leadership in providing “transformative education opportunities that benefit learners, industry and the greater community.” 
Ontario Lieutenant-Governor Edith Dumont announced the 2023 appointments on January 1, 2024 — an inspiring start to the new year as we welcome students for the winter semester and move forward on exciting projects. The Order of Ontario recognized Dr. Fearon for his "vision for equity, inclusion and community empowerment." 
“On behalf of the George Brown College community, we congratulate Dr. Fearon on this well-deserved honour,” said Dr. Bruce Choy, Chair of the George Brown College Board of Governors. “This is an exciting time at the college on many fronts. Thanks to Dr. Fearon's vision, leadership, and engagement across the college, we are expanding our city-building role in Toronto, exploring solutions to student housing affordability in our community, and developing programs that set graduates up for success in the workforce.”   
Dr. Fearon leads an exciting strategic plan and vision for the future of George Brown College, with recent advancements including the development of new career-oriented academic programs, applied research activities and the Waterfront Campus expansion. Other post-secondary institutions across Canada have benefited from his commitment to providing education opportunities and student experiences rooted in equity and belonging that benefit learners, strengthen communities, and support economic growth and prosperity. Before joining George Brown in 2021, he was President and Vice-Chancellor at Brock University and Brandon University and held leadership positions at other institutions. 
Dr. Fearon has contributed to the Ontario government as an executive assistant to the Ontario Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs deputy minister and a senior analyst at the Treasury Board of the Ontario Ministry of Finance. He has also served on the boards of many community organizations, including Niagara Health, Ingenium Centre, Ontario Chamber of Commerce, Trillium Foundation, United Way Niagara, Brandon Urban Aboriginal Peoples’ Council, and Tropicana Community Services. 
The Order of Ontario also recognized Dr. Fearon’s co-authorship of the 2013 white paper Towards a Vision for the Black Community as an influential report that “pioneered ideas for positive change.” 
Dr. Fearon co-founded the Canada Caribbean Institute with Sir Hilary Beckles, Vice-Chancellor of the University of the West Indies.  
Read Dr. Fearon’s bio 
Other George Brown College leaders have recently been recognized for contributions to their fields and the greater community. Chancellor Noella M. Milne has been appointed to the Order of Canada, and Guiding Elder Pauline Shirt was among the 2022 appointees to the Order of Ontario. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.