
The Human Resources Professional Association (HRPA) Student Case Competition in March 2023 was a highly anticipated event for students enrolled in human resources programs across Ontario. The annual two-day event challenges students to analyze and solve complex and real-life business and human resources issues, putting their knowledge and skills to the test. 
A George Brown College postgraduate HR student team, who previously had won first place in our internal case competition, was awarded third place out of 18 teams in Ontario and first out of all Toronto colleges and universities at the 2023 HRPA Student Case Competition.    
The winning team consisted of five passionate and dedicated HR postgrad students (Melissa Burton, Christina Theocharidis, Claire Kearns, Melanie Facchini, and Aaron Kuo), each with a unique skill set and background. Their teamwork, creativity, and attention to detail impressed the judges and led them to victory. 
The team's coach, Professor Jennifer Van Amerom, admired the team's hard work and commitment.
"The GBC HR Case Competition Team truly exemplifies the values and principles of our HR program," she said. 
Academic Director at George Brown's Centre for Business, Elizabeth Speers, congratulated the team on the outstanding achievement. 
"Our students continue to excel and shine, demonstrating the exceptional quality of education and training we provide," she said. "We are proud of their success and confident they will continue making meaningful contributions to human resources."  
The George Brown College community celebrates the team's success and wishes them continued success in their future endeavours. 
Learn more about programs at the School of Human Resources.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.