
While apprentices at George Brown College are already employed, we encourage employers to consider hiring students in our programs that are an introduction to various trades. Three such programs are the Construction Trades Techniques, Electrical Techniques, and Plumbing Techniques (see descriptions below). These programs offer a two week placement opportunity that will allow you to determine if you wish to hire a graduate of the program as an apprentice.
George Brown College is committed to achieving excellence in teaching and applied learning. As part of this commitment, for post-secondary programs we aspire to build a seamless bridge between students and employers in an effort to develop workplace-ready graduates, who will be our industry partners’ candidates of choice. We build relationships with industries, communities and sectors where our students train and ultimately seek employment. As one of our partners, you can help to ensure that curriculum being delivered is both current and relevant and that it meets industry and sector needs. You can get involved in various ways as a partner, including being a guest speaker in the classroom, by participating in one of our career fairs or by becoming a member of a Program Advisory Committee.
This program is designed to offer students choices when considering a career in the construction sector. The program prepares the student with the basic skills in the following trades: Electrician, Millwright, Sheet Metal Worker, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning, Carpenter, Welder, Steamfitter and Plumber. Through practical projects interwoven with theoretical learning, the students gain confidence and experience in the individual trade sections and upon graduation have enough knowledge and skills to be employed as an apprentice.
The Electrical Techniques program will focus on building a working knowledge of electricity and electronics related to residential and commercial applications. Students will develop electrical skills and competencies in electrical theory, network cabling, electrical system installation and electrical workplace safety. The program covers installation, testing, maintenance, analysis and troubleshooting of specified electrical circuits, equipment and systems under the supervision of a qualified person. Throughout the program, students will learn to apply health and safety standards to their work, and perform tasks in accordance with the standards of the Canadian Electrical Code.
Plumbing Techniques focuses on residential and light plumbing systems related to commercial and industrial applications. Students learn about the tools, materials, equipment, and methods used in the plumbing industry. They also estimate materials and labour costs; study industry standards and building codes; consider health and safety issues and energy conservation; and explore careers and the impact of construction technology on society and the environment.
The first segment of the program is safety oriented and looks not only at safety in the classroom, but the importance of working safely at work or at home. Throughout the program, students work with pipe, fittings and fixtures, using a variety of tools, materials, and methods. Students construct and test both water and drain systems as well as learn to install most common residential plumbing fixtures; examine the physics and science of water and the forces acting on a sealed piping system with and without atmospheric pressure on it; and learn to read blueprints and acquire basic drafting skills that will enable them to design, comprehend and build plumbing systems. Finally, students are taught to maintain the plumbing system they install and those that they may encounter in the future.
This program gives an in depth briefing of the plumbing industry, paying particular attention to residential plumbing. It is a hands-on program which will benefit anyone planning to enter Apprenticeship or any construction related management.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.