
The resources listed below are for students residing in Ontario. If you are located outside of Ontario, please visit this Guide for other resources.
There are many resources in the community to help with mental health counselling, crisis supports, peer supports, medical care and other needs. Learn how external resources can help below by determining the type of support you’d like or need.
Psychiatrists, psychologists, psychotherapists and social workers are all regulated professionals who are trained to support people with mental health challenges. There are differences in their training and some of the work they do.
Psychiatrists are medical doctors who undergo additional training to specialize in mental illnesses. Psychiatrists can diagnose mental health disorders and prescribe medication. Some psychiatrists also provide counselling or talk therapy, but many focus on diagnosis and medication support.
Psychologists in Ontario have a PhD in psychology. Some psychologists diagnose certain kinds of mental health conditions and some provide psychological testing for things such as learning disorders. Psychologists can also provide counselling or talk therapy. Psychologists cannot prescribe medication.
Social Workers usually have a Master’s degree in social work. They can provide counselling or talk therapy. Most social workers’ training focuses on understanding the role of community and social circumstances on one’s mental health, and they often play a role in connecting individuals to community resources and support networks. Social Workers do not prescribe medication or provide official diagnoses.
Psychotherapists also have a Master’s level degree in counselling. They can provide counselling or talk therapy. Psychotherapists do not prescribe medication or provide official diagnoses.
If you are interested in counselling services, any of these professionals listed above may be able to help you. If you need assistance with a very particular type of issue or require medical support or medication you should select a professional who specializes in the area you need help with. All the counsellors at GBC are Registered Social Workers, Registered Psychotherapists or Registered Psychologists.
Counselling services at GBC are all free of charge for registered students. Many community agencies and hospital programs also provide counselling free of charge or at a low cost. Free mental health services can sometimes have a waiting list for their programs. You can also access counselling services through a mental health professional in the community who provides fee-for-service counselling, which is often called “private practice”. If you are choosing a counsellor in private practice you should ensure that they are properly trained and have a professional designation such as one of those listed above.
To receive medical services, including prescription medication for mental health issues, you can see a family doctor at a walk-in clinic, a hospital, a family health team or other medical practice in the community. A family doctor is also called a general practitioner, and they can provide general medical services such as a check-up, vaccinations, diagnosis of medical conditions, and prescribe most medications. To receive most general medical services, you do not need a referral. You may need a referral to access specialized medical care, such as a psychiatrist, for more complex medical conditions. A family doctor can refer you to a specialist.
To receive medical services you will need either a valid provincial health card (in Ontario this is called OHIP), some form of health insurance (at GBC this is available through We Speak Student), or pay directly for the care you receive. You should find out from the doctor ahead of time if your health insurance covers the services you are going to receive.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.