
Welcome to our Government Relations (GR) hub, your trusted source for staying up-to-date on post-secondary news and announcements, navigating legislative and regulatory changes impacting our sector and exploring grant and funding opportunities. The GR team is excited to establish an integrated hub and spoke model government relations strategy to highlight, promote and enhance opportunities for George Brown College aligned with municipal, provincial and federal goals.  
Explore our resources, stay informed, and together let the GR team help showcase your exceptional programs and all that the college has to offer to government officials at all levels.
Explore partners
Advocacy
The GR team works across jurisdictions to promote the prominence of the college and understanding of our value to the fabric of Toronto, Ontario and Canada to various levels of government. Key themes in our advocacy include:
Advocacy on recent Blue Ribbon Panel: In March 2023, the Ontario government created a blue-ribbon panel to provide advice on the financial stability of postsecondary education. Over the past few months George Brown College has participated in the Blue-Ribbon Panel to discuss and provide solutions in response to the challenging landscape of post-secondary tuition. The panel delivered their report of recommendations to the Ministry of Colleges and Universities in November addressing tuition and how to better align education with labour market needs.
If you have an upcoming event involving local, provincial or national government or would like to discuss advocacy on behalf of an initiative or grant, please reach out 
Joe Cressy Senior Vice President - External Relations, Communications and Real Estate Development George Brown College  
Laura Jamer Director – Government Relations  George Brown College 
Munisha Basiram Manager – Government Relations  George Brown College 
The team can be contacted through emailing GR@georgebrown.ca
Learn about legislative announcements, parliamentary key dates and more. 
October 25, 2023 GBC Advocacy with Polytechnics Canada in Ottawa: On October 25th, President Dr. Gervan Fearon attended lobby day in Ottawa with Polytechnics Canada.  
October 3, 2023 CICan On the Hill: GBC President, Dr. Gervan Fearon and Laura Jamer, Director, Government Relations represented the college in Ottawa at Colleges and Institutes Canada advocacy day on the hill on October 3, 2023. The full-day event provided an opportunity to engage with parliamentarians and senior federal officials to share perspectives on how colleges and institutes support Canadian students to gain global skills and contribute to international education.  
Learn about recent happenings at Queens Park at the Ontario Legislature and at the House of Commons in Ottawa.  
December 7, 2023IRCC Announces New International Student Measures: On December 7, 2023, Hon. Marc Miller, Minister of Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship, announced measures to improve the international student experience, building on reforms to the International Student Program announced in October. Notable changes include increased financial requirements in alignment with the true cost of living, an extension of student work hours and recognition of designated learning institutions that provide top-quality student services and support. Read the IRCC’s announcement.
November 2, 2023Ontario Fall Economic Statement Launch: On Thursday November 2nd, Ontario Released their Fall Economic Statement, forecasting the complete scope of government spending for the upcoming year.  
October 27, 2023 Federal Announcement on Supports for International Students: On October 27th Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship of Canada Minister Mark Miller announced steps to strengthen Canada’s International Student Program. The plan aims to combat fraud, stop bad actors, and fast-track study permit applications for high quality institutions. The plan will include a multi-layered acceptance letter authentication system and the adoption of a “Recognized Institutions” framework to support universities and colleges who provide proper supports for international students. Read more here.  
September 2023Senators Author International Student Report: In September 2023, four senators co-authored the Strengthening the Integrity of Canada’s International Student Program report, discussing the current landscape, complexities, and recommendations on how to create policies that will continue to enrich Canada with international students while mitigating the challenges. Read the joint Senators report (PDF).
September 18, 2023  MPs Return to Ottawa: Members of Parliament returned to the House of Commons on September 18 after an approximately 3-month summer break. Many MPPs are entering with new roles as Justin Trudeau shuffled his cabinet in July, appointing new Ministers and unveiling a list of new Parliamentary Secretaries in September. Housing, inflation and the cost of living have dominated debates since the return to Ottawa.  
September 11, 2023  Province Undergoing Student Housing Consultations: The Ontario Minister of Colleges and Universities Jill Dunlop has been consulting with the sector on how to remove barriers to create affordable on and off campus student housing and is hosting fall roundtables with municipalities, private career colleges and builders. The government is not considering regulation of international student tuition at this time. GBC is actively looking to offer solutions to ensure both domestic and international student are fully supported throughout their education. Read the full article here. 
Funding opportunities and grants are available across all levels of government. While the Government Relations team does not author grant applications on behalf of the college, we support employees to navigate the process effectively.
We can also advocate on behalf of applications through our networks. With our assistance, you'll be better equipped to seize the opportunities that match your vision and make a positive impact.
As a member of the broader post-secondary community within the City of Toronto and the province of Ontario, we work with valued partner organizations to achieve common goals as well as all levels of government. 
At the national level we are proud to partner with Colleges & Institutes Canada (CICAN) and Polytechnics Canada. 
Provincially we partner with Colleges Ontario and the Ontario Chamber of Commerce.
We also have key partners at the local level including the Toronto Region Board of Trade, Waterfront BIA and Waterfront Toronto. 
Learn more about our partners
Stay in the know with our Government Relations Roundup email. Our monthly newsletters will share relevant federal, provincial and municipal post-secondary news, legislative updates, grant deadlines, events and more 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.