
With the education that you now have, a wealth of opportunity awaits you. To make sure that you graduate officially and are ready to work after graduation, there are a few things that require your attention. First, make sure you are aware of the date and location of convocation so that you can attend. And it is also important to register as an alumnus, so you can take advantage of services available to you including GBCareers, our online job board, career counselling, events and networking opportunities.
Graduation is an exciting time for every George Brown College student. Convocation is the ceremony at which a successful student’s degree or certificate is publicly presented.
The word Convocation means “a calling together” and convocation is a ceremony where you, along with a new community of graduates, are called together in celebration of your academic achievement – an important moment in every student’s life!
View your convocation ceremony date and time schedule.
Open Work Permit Holders (including those in CIC’s Post-Graduation Work Permit Program), as well as their spouses and dependents, may be eligible for Ontario Health Insurance Coverage provided they are employed full-time for an employer in Ontario for a minimum of six months, have a valid work permit during this time, and:
For more detailed information regarding OHIP eligibility and the changes to OHIP eligibility rules refer to the Eligibility fact sheet.
To speak with someone regarding your OHIP eligibility contact the INFOline at 1-800-268-1154 or visit your local Service Ontario – Health Card Services – OHIP office.
George Brown International works hard to continue our history and tradition of producing graduates who have found exciting and successful careers all over the world. We are proud of our graduates’ accomplishments and eager to hear your feedback on the College and its programs. If you’re a recent graduate we have a number of supports in place to help you put your education to great use.Check out these sites for career opportunities, advice and more:
International Students must have valid documents to be able to stay and study in Canada.
Visitors, workers and students can apply online at https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/corporate/publications-manuals/operational-bulletins-manuals/temporary-residents/study-permits/post-graduation-work-permit-program.html for faster processing.
Whenever possible, students are encouraged to apply online to extend their study permit, TRV, and/or apply or renew their work permits. If you have already submitted a paper application, please do not submit an electronic application as this will not speed up processing.
International students are eligible to apply for a Post-Graduation Work Permit that is valid from 8 months to up to three (3) years, depending on the duration of the academic program successfully completed. Please check with Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) to confirm eligibility. For more information, please visit the IRCC website.
Applications for a Post-Graduation Work Permit can be submitted on-line or by mail. For details go to https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/study-canada/work/after-graduation/apply.html
Students must submit their application for a Post-Graduation Work Permit within 90 days of receiving official notification that they have fulfilled the requirements to graduate.
If the program you completed or the line of work you will be looking for involves working with Canadian families, the disabled, the elderly/seniors, or children or at any health care institutions and community services, and you want to work in this field, you may be required to get a recent (valid for 12 months) medical exam by a Panel Physician, to be issued a Work Permit without conditions. Please check the CIC website at https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/study-canada/work.htmlor call the CIC Call Centre at 1-888-242-2100 for details.
This information has been reviewed by a Regulated International Student Immigration Advisor (RISIA). However, immigration policies can change without notice. Students are solely responsible for ensuring that they are in compliance with all Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) regulations at all times during their studies and while in Canada, including any medical or study and work permit-related requirements. For the most up to date information, please refer to the IRCC website directly at IRCC webpage or consult the IRCC Contact Centre at 1-888-242-2100 to confirm or clarify immigration-related information and requirement.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.