
The College would like to celebrate your achievement with an in-person Convocation ceremony. Ceremonies will take place from June 12–16, 2023.
The Convocation 2023 Ceremonies will celebrate graduates from the Spring 2022, Fall 2022, and Winter 2023 terms.
Winter term graduates who are not attending convocation, you will receive your credentials (certificates, diplomas, and degrees) by mail in the summer. Please ensure you have provided your most current mail and email addresses on STU-VIEW by Monday, May 29, 2023, by reviewing the 'Personal Information' tab after logging in.
To graduate, you must have:
 AND
Your records must be in good standing by the deadline indicated on the Important Dates for Graduates timeline, (to be in good standing, you must not have any outstanding fees, fines or loans, including book and equipment loans on your account).Check STU-VIEW to ensure your account is cleared of any holds preventing your graduation.
If you are a full-time or Apprentice student registered in the final semester of your program, and meet the requirements outlined above, you will be graduated automatically by the College.
The name printed on your credential, transcript, and in the convocation program is the name displayed on your STU-VIEW account. To confirm we have your correct name on file, please check STU-VIEW.
For in-person name changes, students will need a valid Marriage Certificate (for proof of surname changes), Legal Name Change document, Birth Certificate or Driver's License.
To ensure you receive all information or documents in a timely manner, please confirm the contact information (address, email, phone number) we have on file is up to date on STU-VIEW.When possible, we will correspond with you through your George Brown e-mail. Please check this account frequently for updates.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.