
In order to graduate in the current convocation ceremonies, you must complete all your program requirements by the end of the Winter 2023 term and your records must be in good standing.
All students' records must be in good standing by the deadline indicated on the Important Dates for Graduates timeline, (to be in good standing, you must not have any outstanding fees, fines or loans, including book and equipment loans on your account).
Check STU-VIEW to ensure your account is cleared of any holds that may prevent your graduation.
Full-time and Part-time, Post-secondary and Apprentice graduates who completed their program in the Spring 2022, Fall 2022, and Winter 2023 terms and did not attend a previous convocation for the same program are eligible to attend the current convocation ceremonies.
To see your program's ceremony date and time, please see the convocation ceremonies schedule.
If you are a Full-time, Post-secondary or Apprenticeship student registered in the final semester of your program, and meet the requirements to graduate, you will be graduated automatically by the college.
If you are planning to attend your convocation ceremony, you must reserve your seats via your STU-VIEW account by the RSVP deadline.
If you are not attending your convocation ceremony your credential will be mailed to you by the date indicated on the Important Dates for Graduates timeline. Please note you are not required to inform us of your decision to not attend.
To ensure you receive all information or documents in a timely manner, please confirm the contact information (address, email, phone number) we have on file is up to date on STU-VIEW.
When possible, we will correspond with you through your George Brown e-mail. Please check this account frequently for updates.
If your credential was returned to the college by the post office, please contact the Academic Records Office at records@georgebrown.ca for assistance. Please note the college will only keep your credential on file until mid-August of the current convocation ceremonies year. Graduates who request to receive their credential after mid-August must request a replacement copy online at https://records.georgebrown.ca and pay the applicable replacement fee.
All graduates must reserve their convocation tickets through STU-VIEW during the RSVP Window.
To attend the convocation ceremonies, you must reserve your seats by the RSVP deadline. You can RSVP even if you are unsure if you are graduating.
To complete the RSVP process, you are required to know your height for proper gown fitting and the total number of guests (maximum of 4) you would like to reserve tickets for.
Tickets are ONLY issued to confirmed graduates and will be emailed and available on STU-VIEW after the RSVP deadline. You may view the ticket issue date at RSVP for Convocation and Tickets.
All graduates are allowed a maximum of 4 guest tickets.
All graduates and guests must have a ticket to attend the ceremony. For example, if you request tickets for 2 guests, you will receive a total of 3 tickets. One of the tickets will be designated as a ticket for the graduate that you must bring to the venue on the day of your ceremony.
Follow these steps if you want to invite a family member from overseas to convocation:
International Students – May request an optional Letter of Enrolment (if currently enrolled) OR Graduation letter (if program completed) from the International Office
Domestic Students – May request an optional Letter of Enrolment through records.georgebrown.ca, or optional graduation letter by emailing convocation@georgebrown.ca if they have graduated.
See more information on how to write the invitation letter at  Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC)
See more information for international students at International Graduating Students
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.