
We understand the important role guidance counsellors play in helping high school students choose the best program and the right college. Here you’ll find important information and quick links to help you advise your students on options available to them at George Brown College.
full-time students
full-time programs(includes certificate, diploma, degree and graduate certificate credentials)
of full-time programs offer experiential learning*
89 – percentage of employers satisfied with George Brown graduates they’ve hired** 
90 – number of companies and organizations we worked with on applied research projects, prototyping, designing and testing new products and services in 2019-20 
1,588 – number of scholarships dispersed to students — the largest amount in our Foundation's history.***  
Read our Impact Report for the full picture
Automation, artificial intelligence and climate change are just a few of the factors that are transforming the workforce. With new and disruptive technologies developing faster than ever, employers tell us they’re looking for a blend of technical and people skills in new hires—people who can problem solve, communicate effectively, and who are resilient in the face of change.
Find out how we’re preparing for the future:
Learn about our key priorities as we prepare adaptable and innovative grads ready for a world of rapid change. Strategy 2022, Vision 2030
Listen to our employees, industry partners and students discuss issues around the future of work.
Work Shift podcast
The George Brown College liaison team can answer questions you have about college programs and admission requirements. They can also help you with the following:
For an overview of the student experience at George Brown, please visit georgebrown.ca/why-george-brown/student-experience/. 
We offer free workshops and one-on-one sessions for those thinking about attending college, on a range of topics, including on how to apply, choosing a career path, choosing a program, applying as an international student, and more. 
Entry Advising
Find information about our Financial Aid services at georgebrown.ca/financialaid/. 
In 2019-2020, George Brown College offered more than 900 student awards worth a combined $7.9 million. Students can apply online in a one-time application process. 
Student Awards
George Brown College has a work study program which provides students with part-time employment on campus. 
Student can also find part-time employment through Career Services. 
Work study program 
Learn more about what George Brown College has to offer in the following online publications:
For more information, please contact us at:
Admissions416-415-5000 ext. 4805
Campus Tours416-415-5000 ext. 2896tours@georgebrown.ca  
Liz Henriques, Liaison Officer416-415-5000 ext. 2929lhenriques@georgebrown.ca  
Robyn Papoff, Liaison Officer416-415-5000 ext. 2267rpapoff@georgebrown.ca  
Mailing AddressP.O. Box 1015, Station BToronto, ON M5T 2T9
Campus Locations Maps
 
*Excludes upgrading and preparatory programs. Enrolment Planning and Reporting Department, George Brown College
**Key Performance Indicators, Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities, September 25, 2019
***George Brown College Foundation
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.