
Ontario legislation specifies certain surveillance requirements for those individuals entering into healthcare,  dental or field work practice settings. This program policy was developed in accordance with the Communicable Disease Surveillance protocols, specified under the Ontario Public Health, Ontario Hospital Association, Ontario Medical Association, Long Term Care Association and Ontario School Boards. These measures are necessary to protect your health and safety, and the health and safety of the patients, employees, seniors, children and other vulnerable population at the organization or facility offering you a placement.   


ParaMed and George Brown College Partnership




The Placement Pass Program provided by ParaMed is the service approved by George Brown College to manage the clearance process for these surveillance requirements.  ParaMed and George Brown College have a long-standing partnership that began in 2008. ParaMed’s qualified and experienced nurses are responsible for reviewing the Health Form documents and supporting certificates for all Full-time and Continuing Education students who are registered in Community Services, Health Sciences and Hospitality programs to determine if you have met and are eligible to be part of upcoming clinical,  dental or field work practice per semester and academic year. 


Attention Students: Please note that you cannot create an account until you officially registered to your GBC Stu-View account for the Winter Term 2024. Please check the GBC Stu-View website at https://stuview.georgebrown.ca/ for the list of staggered program registration dates effective on November 13, 2023.  Once you have registered in the program, your portal account will be open and available for submission after 24 hours. 


Once you have registered in the program, completed the Prerequisite Health Form medical and non-medical requirements, you will then be able to access, create an account, submit and upload it to the Paramed Placement Pass portal.


ParaMed Home Health Care has been providing exceptional-quality health care and support services in Canadian homes, hospitals, assisted living centres, long-term care centres, schools and offices - 24 hours a day, seven days a week since 1974. ParaMed has achieved accreditation with exemplary status through Accreditation Canada.


For more information on ParaMed, please visit our website @ https://www.paramed.com/
