
"Our Innovation Exchange will be a living lab to test commercial ideas, concepts and user functionality while providing our students with hands-on experience alongside the industry's most innovative creators," said Luigi Ferrara, Dean of the Centre for Arts, Design & Information Technology at George Brown College.
The future School of Design building will include the Innovation Exchange and Design Centre for the Smart Economy, a research hub where students and businesses will team up and bring new ideas to market.
This is supported by a 5-year, multi-million dollar grant from the NSERC Innovation Enhancement and Canada Foundation for Innovation programs. This funding will make it possible for Canadian companies to work with faculty and students to solve industry challenges through applied research, and to adopt new approaches to designing and developing customer experiences, digital service design ecosystems, computing platforms and alternative user interfaces that are shaped by technology. Faculty and students in the Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design will play an integral role in pushing this research agenda.
The School of Design has a strong track record of applied research projects. This includes a three-year SSHRC grant from the Community and College Social Innovation Fund to partner with the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health on an interactive app co-designed by students and youth who deal with crisis in the Region of Peel. 
By being involved in research projects, GBC students develop skills in service and product development and design, laboratory experimentation, field research, project management, communications, ethics, entrepreneurship, leadership and teamwork.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.