
What better way for students to be prepared for their careers than by gaining exposure and experience in their chosen industries as early as possible? This is where we depend on our partners. Their willingness to host students before graduation and potentially hire them afterwards is a key component of a George Brown College education.
Did you know that 98 percent of our programs offer at least one experiential learning opportunity to our students? We're well on our way to making it 100 percent. We couldn't do this without our partners who provide experiential and work-integrated learning opportunities for our students. As a result of these opportunities, students learn valuable workplace skills, working alongside experts in their field.
But we firmly believe that it's not only our students who benefit from such partnerships. We know our students have a lot to offer. Not only are they hard-working and willing, but they also offer new ideas and perspectives that can be helpful to their hosts. Hosting a student can be a great recruitment strategy. The employers and industries who work with our students are in the unique position of developing talent, essentially training their next employees. Many of our students go on to accept post-graduation offers from places they completed work experience.
What better way for students to be prepared for their careers than by gaining exposure and experience in their chosen industries as early as possible? This is where we depend on our partners. Their willingness to host students before graduation and potentially hire them afterwards is a key component of a George Brown College education.
Our Career Centre can help you if you’re looking to hire one of our graduates. You’ll be able to post jobs on the GBCareers job site, host on-campus recruitment opportunities or employer information sessions, and attend career fairs and events.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.