
Housing information is available for students searching for off-campus housing.
We currently have a partnership with Places4Students and encourage students to view their listings. It can take some time to find an apartment in Toronto. Apartment listings usually go up 1-2 months previous to their availability. So if you’re looking to move beginning of September it is usually good to start looking in July.
George Brown College has a student residence, The George, that features all-inclusive living, with the flexibility of 8 month (Fall/Winter) and 4 Month (Summer) agreements.
The George houses over 500 students in fully furnished 2-bedroom suites that include a kitchenette and 3-piece bathroom. The rooms are fully loaded, with Wi-Fi, cable television and a flat screen TV, phone with local calling, and floor to ceiling windows.
Our common spaces are second to none, featuring a BBQ patio, large games room, relaxation area with media screens, and study space overlooking the city.
For application information, and more detail about The George, please visit our student residence webpage:
Visit The George Residence webpage
80 Cooperage Street [ Open in Google Maps ],Toronto ONM5A 0J3info@georgebrownresidence.ca416-761-8000
Student housing platform to find off-campus housing, private or shared room stay, homestay and dormitory. Book your  affordable furnished apartment online and around your campus with 4stay.
http://georgebrownoffcampus.4stay.com
For additional information about homestay services for international students, please contact Eloise Poon from the International Centre, and she will be able to assist you further. This type of accommodation is for students only.
Canada HomeShare™ is facilitated by a team of Social Workers who prioritize safety and security.
All participants complete a Vulnerable Sector Screening, and all homes undergo a safety check. Social workers provide ongoing support by conducting regular follow-ups and mediation.In exchange for reduced rent of $400-$600 per month, the student provides up to seven hours of companionship and/or assistance with completing light household tasks, such as preparing and sharing meals, tidying up, carrying groceries, or walking a pet. Additional cost – groceries, internet, utilities.
https://www.canadahomeshare.com/ 
Most of the accommodation listed at the Housing Service is located within approximately 30 minutes travel time from the college. Many students prefer to live within walking distance of the college. This saves money and time and also means that students can participate more easily in a variety of campus activities. However, because this accommodation is so popular, it is usually priced somewhat higher and is rented more quickly.
Landlords and students list rooms in shared apartments and houses, as well as private apartments and houses for rent. Sharing accommodation with either a family or another student is the most economical type of student housing. Sometimes a group of students will look for a private apartment or house and then share the rent. Accommodation may be furnished, unfurnished or semi-furnished. Private apartments and houses are usually unfurnished.
While most students need to purchase and cook their own food, some listings in this category may indicate that board is available. Although your room may be furnished, you should be prepared to supply your own bedding and towels.
Room: A private bedroom with shared access to only bathroom and kitchen facilities.
Shared Apartment or House: A private bedroom with shared access to the kitchen, bathroom, living room etc.
Semi-Private: A private bedroom in a house or apartment with one or more private facilities i.e. bathroom, kitchen and/or sitting or study area.
Private accommodation is self-contained and usually has a private entrance which separates it from the rest of the building. You must be able to lock this entrance.
Apartment: A unit with a least one bedroom, a bathroom, a kitchen, and one or more other rooms, such as a living room, all of which are private.
Bachelor Apartment: A unit with one room for living and sleeping, as well as a bathroom and kitchen area, all of which are private.
House: A complete house for rent.
Do you need legal advice? We know lawyers are expensive – especially on a student budget – but we also know that they can be a necessary expense. We wanted students to have the ability to utilize these services while at George Brown College, so we developed the Student Legal Services department.
Our team is committed to helping you with the following legal matters:
So if you’re a student with a legal matter you need help with, book an appointment with our legal team today at sagbc.ca/legal.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.