
We will be accepting late applications (or completing existing applications) for Winter 2024 programs.
From January 8th - January 19th, 2024, please apply through ontariocolleges.ca.  George Brown College will contact you on the next steps, once we receive you application. You may come in person to complete your application. Please bring your OCAS ID number.
Hours: Monday to Friday: 10:00 am to 3:00 pm
St. James Campus200 King St. East 
Casa Loma Campus 160 Kendal Ave. 
Please visit the Late Admit page for details.
Domestic Students
International Students
In Ontario, domestic students apply to all colleges through OntarioColleges.ca, not directly to the colleges you’re interested in. This means that with one form, you can apply for up to five programs, and up to three of these can be at any one college.
APPLY NOW 
You can watch our video below for a quick outline of the domestic application process. You'll find more detailed step-by-step instructions below.
Key dates:
The earliest date that Ontario Colleges can release offers of admission to qualified applicants will be November 1.
Most programs at George Brown will be eligible for this early offer, depending on your date of application submission. May 1 will still be the deadline date to confirm an offer of admission to start in September, and the payment deposit date is due in mid-June.
Apply by February 1 for equal consideration for highly competitive programs.
All qualified applications to highly competitive programs will be considered for available spaces equally until February 1.  After this date, we will still consider applicants in sequence until programs are full.
Please see your specific program page to know if your program is in this category. 
The application steps below are for domestic students only. International students should visit the application process for international students page.
International Application Process
Find the programs you want using our Program Finder tool. You can compare programs side by side using our Program Comparison feature.
After you know which program(s) you’d like to apply to, complete an online application form at OntarioColleges.ca. 
Please note that there is a non-refundable $110 application fee.
Academic documents should be sent to OntarioColleges.ca. 
Applicants can track their application status online at STU-VIEW.
You will need your student ID and password.
Once your application is complete, we will let you know:
Let our mascot Helder the Husky show you how easy it is to apply to the college. It just takes a few simple steps to start the process to become a George Brown student!
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.