
George Brown College's Awards program recognizes students in need along with those who demonstrate excellence. Scholarships, awards and bursaries assist you with the costs of your education. All you have to do is apply!
Important Note: Before applying for student awards for a particular term, please ensure that you are registered for the term with a full-time course load – i.e. you must have already signed up for your required classes. If you are not registered as a full-time student in a post-secondary program, you will not see any awards applications when you get to Step 3 of the application process.
Applications for student awards are available only during specific times at the beginning of each semester through Stu-View under the Student Awards tab.
To access the online application for student awards:
a) Login to your STU-VIEW account.
b) Click on the Student Awards tab.
c) Select Apply for Student Awards.
You will now see the Select Aid Year and Period page.
d) Click on the Continue button at the bottom of the screen.
You will now see the Select and Application page.
e) Carefully read the instructions shown at the top of the page.
f) From the drop-down menu, select Student Profile.
To complete your Student Profile form:
a) Select Student Profile from the Application dropdown menu on the Select an Application page.
You must complete the STUDENT PROFILE as the first step. The STUDENT PROFILE is where you will apply for College-Wide and Divisional awards. Make sure you have completed each section. You will know if a section is complete when a red check mark appears next to it (Pro-tip; we suggest using a Word Document to write your entries first, so the system doesn’t time out on you). Please ensure you “submit application,” and you will be considered for ALL awards that you meet the criteria for in each category. The Student Profile must be submitted once per academic year.
c) Click on the link for the first section—General Questionnaire—to begin filling out your Student Profile.
d) For each section, answer all questions to the best of your ability.
e) When you have answered all the questions within a section, select Mark this section complete and click on the Continue button to go to the next section.
f) At any time, you can click on the View Sections button to return to the main menu of the Student Profile form.
You will see a red checkmark next to each section that you have completed. You will see a blue icon next to each section that is pending (i.e. incomplete).
g) Once you have completed all six (6) required sections — i.e. all sections have a red checkmark — click on the Submit Application button.
You will now see the Submit Application page with a message confirming that your application was successfully submitted.
To view the awards applications:
a) Select the Click Here to View Additional Awards Applications link on the Submit Application page. (This page is displayed immediately upon submission of the Student Profile). If there are any additional awards applicable to you based on your profile, you may click the link and apply.
OR
Click on the Student Awards tab and then select Apply for Student Awards.
You will now see the Select Aid Year and Period page.
Please note: If you have not yet registered for the term with a full-time course load in a post-secondary program, you will not be able to continue. Instead, you will see the following message: “THERE ARE NO AWARDS APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE.” If you later register for classes with a full-time course load, please re-submit your Student Profile and then continue with Step 3.
c) Use the Application dropdown menu to see the awards applications that are available to you.
Please note: The awards applications which appear in the Application dropdown menu will vary according to your program registration, course load, and declaration of identity. You will only be shown applications for awards groups that you may potentially be eligible for.
In most cases, individual awards will not appear on awards applications. Instead, you will be asked to apply for an awards group—e.g. George Brown College Entrance Awards—and you will then be considered for all the individual awards within that group.
To apply for additional awards:
a) Select an application from the Application dropdown menu.
b) Click on the Continue button at the bottom of the Select an Application screen.
You will now see the Application Confirmation page. Please be sure to note the application deadline for the selected application.
c) Click on the Continue button at the bottom of the Application Confirmation screen.
You will now see the main menu for the selected application form, with a link to each section. Required sections are marked with a red asterisk (*).
d) Click on the link to go to the corresponding section.
You will now see all the awards that are available within this section. Awards that are marked with a red asterisk (*) are required – i.e. you must click through to apply.
e) Click on each link to view the application for a particular award or awards group.
f) Answer all the questions displayed on the application, if any.
g) Click on the Apply for this award checkbox.
Please note: If you do not select this checkbox, you will not be considered for the award/awards group.
h) Click on the Save and Continue button.
The word “SELECTED” will now appear next to the name of each award that you have applied for. If you do not see “SELECTED” next to the name of an award, you have not applied for this award.
i) Once you have applied for all required awards within a section—i.e. each award is marked “SELECTED”—click on the Mark this section complete checkbox.
j) Click on the Continue button to go to the next section.
k) At any time, you can click on the View Sections button to return to the main menu of the selected application form.
You will see a red checkmark next to each section that you have completed— click through to see which awards you’ve selected (i.e. applied for).
You will see a blue icon next to each section that is pending (i.e. incomplete).
l) Once you have completed all required sections — i.e. all required sections have a red checkmark — click on the Submit Application button.
You will now see the Submit Application page with a message confirming that your application was successfully submitted.
m) Select the Click Here to View Additional Awards Applications link to select a different awards group application.
Please note: You must complete Step 4 for each additional awards application separately.
To review your application(s):
To change/update/resubmit your application information:
To check the status of your application(s):
Please note that award results will be posted near the end of the applicable semester.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.