
Trying to keep up with your job or your studies while also taking care of your children? It can be challenging to try to balance both of these important responsibilities. Here are a few tips from George Brown Counsellor Lavlet Forde that may help.  
Adults aren’t the only ones who benefit from having a routine – maintaining a schedule can really help kids thrive. Children often feel a sense of stability when there is consistency in their day-to-day activities. A child’s attention span isn’t as long as an adult’s, so try to break up your child’s activities/responsibilities into 30-minute blocks. Some of these activities may include reading, colouring or arts and crafts. Need more information on how to set up a schedule for your child? Check out these home-schooling tips.
There are many free online educational resources available to keep kids busy and learning.  
While your child is focusing on their activity, try to use this time to focus on your own assignments. Consider waking up an hour or two before your child wakes up to focus on your studies or work. You might also plan to study for another hour or two after your child goes to bed.   
It’s natural for kids to want their caregiver/parent’s attention, so provide space for this throughout the day. Consider taking breaks and having some meals together. If your child wants your attention while you are focusing on your studies or work, try to redirect them to the break time and/or mealtime that you will have together and consider turning off all devices during this time.  
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.