
Click through the tabs below to discover ways to fund your college education.
Every year George Brown College gives approximately $7.9 million in awards to around 6,000 students in the form of scholarships, bursaries and awards. One of those students could be YOU!
Don’t worry if you’re also receiving OSAP (Ontario Student Assistance Program) funds — you can still apply for George Brown awards.
George Brown Student Awards
Watch the video for details on different types of awards and tips on how to prepare to apply.
There are a lot of people who want to help you succeed. Every year organizations, including companies, clubs and associations, distribute student awards. These groups provide funding based on their own sets of criteria that can include financial need, academic standing and others. Awards also exist for students with disabilities or exceptionalities.
Watch the video for details. 
External awards available to George Brown students
In the 2017/18 school year OSAP provided nearly $135 million in funding.
OSAP (Ontario Student Assistance Program) is a combination of federal and provincial funds in the form of loans and grants. The loan portion must be paid back, but not the grant.
There are criteria you must meet to be eligible for OSAP. You may also be eligible to receive extra support through OSAP’s Student Access Guarantee.
Watch the video for details.
OSAP information
Did you know Aeroplan, TD Bank or CIBC loyalty points can be turned into funds you can use on campus? You can ask family and friends to donate their points to help support your studies.
Visit HigherEdPoints.com to create an account and turn the points into cash.
Here are a few other options to consider when saving for college:
George Brown College can help you prepare for your dream job now. We continue to offer the high-quality and career-focused programs and services you expect from us.
**Source: 2018/19 Colleges Ontario Key Performance Indicators
Sign up for email updates and be entered for a chance to win $5,000 towards your tuition. Contest closes August 31, 2023, see Contest Rules for full details. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.