
Due to the high volume of applications received, we are not able to provide exact processing times. However, the current application processing time is approximately 4+ weeks. We prioritize complete applications, so review our pre-application checklist to make sure you have everything you need to submit a successful application.
You'll find a lot of helpful information on this page, including how our application cycles work, what to do when you receive an offer and more!
Ready to apply?
Applying to George Brown College as an international student is easy. Once you've decided what program you would like to apply for, simply complete and submit your application online attaching scanned copies of necessary supporting documents.
PROGRAM INTAKE
JAN. 2024 START
MAY 2024 START
Intake open for submission of applications and Offer issuance begins
April 3, 2023
August 8, 2023
First day of classes
January 8, 2024
May 6, 2024
PROGRAM INTAKE
SEPT. 2024 START
JAN. 2025 START
MAY 2025 START
Intake open for submission of applications and Offer issuance begins
December 4, 2023
April 8, 2024
August 6, 2024
First day of classes
September 3, 2024
January 6, 2025
May 5, 2025
*Applications for conditional admission through English for Academic Purposes (EAP) will be processed throughout the year according to the EAP start dates.
We receive far more applications than spaces available. As a result, we process international applications on a selective basis. This means that on a program-by-program basis, we may establish processing priorities based on the academic quality of applicants, program capacity, and institutional diversity goals.
Ensuring diversity within our international student population is a key priority of George Brown College. We are committed to balancing our international student body so that a wide range of regions and countries is represented. This is essential to ensuring that both our domestic and international students have a truly global experience, reflecting the many and varied viewpoints that international students bring to the classroom.
We do not have the capacity to admit all applicants who meet the minimum general and program-specific requirements. Programs can close early if international enrollment for the program is achieved and there is no more capacity. Submission of an application does not guarantee an offer of a place in a program.
George Brown College maintains a network of authorized international agents who play an important role in aiding prospective students through their application process while representing the College in a professional and trustworthy manner at all times. Some agents charge a fee for visa counselling. We encourage students who plan to use the services of an agent representative to ask, in advance, what those fees are.
Please note that George Brown College does not process applications from unauthorized agents.
If you have any questions or concerns related to hiring an agent please contact the appropriate Business Development Officer for your region.
After we receive your complete application it will be reviewed by our admissions officers once the admissions cycle has begun. For programs that require review by the academic department (under Divisional Selection), it may take longer to process your application.
If all required documents and payments are in order, we will issue a Letter of Acceptance (LOA). This letter must be included in your Study Permit (visa) application to the Canadian Immigration Office at the Canadian Embassy or Consulate.
We prioritize complete applications that include all documents required to make an admission decision.
Please carefully review the admissions requirements by country to ensure all documents are submitted and your application is complete.
George Brown assesses admissibility to your first program choice. Your second program choice will only be assessed if you are not eligible for admission to your first choice.
Please note also that there may be an additional $95 application fee required for application deferrals.
FIND OUT WHAT TO DO AFTER YOU RECEIVE AN OFFER
Once your application has been processed by an Admissions Officer you will receive communication by email to the address you provided in your application.
The international online application system at George Brown College does not provide ongoing application status updates. Additionally, please refrain from reopening your application as this will cause the application to be resubmitted and returned to the end of the processing queue.
We understand that you may have questions about the application process. We recommend connecting with one of our recruitment representatives from your country of origin. You can book a one-on-one virtual meeting by visiting our contact page.
Not all programs are available to international students, check the list of programs open to international students to ensure that you are eligible.
To be admitted into the post-secondary program of your choice you must meet the admission requirements, so confirm that you meet the criteria before you begin your application.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.