
In the dynamic field of denturism, Eric Kukucka, an alumnus of George Brown College’s Denturism program, is making a name for himself.
Currently serving as the Vice President of Clinical Removable Prosthetics and Design Technology at Aspen Dental, Kukucka’s journey from a GBC student to a prominent figure in his industry serves as an inspirational story for current and prospective students aiming to follow in his footsteps.
Aspen Dental is a national network of more than 1,100 independent dental offices. He is responsible for the delivery and clinical efficacy of removable prosthetics, overseeing and facilitating learning and development initiatives for new and mid-career doctors.
As a researcher, educator, author, and leading authority in denturism, Kukucka helps develop protocols and materials for dental clinicians and technicians around the world. A former clinic owner himself, he also consults for multinational companies where he advises on various topics including digital workflows, material sciences, imaging technology and various innovations to further improve the digital ecosystem of removable prosthetics.
Kukucka has been instrumental in putting denturism on the global map. His impressive accomplishments include being the first denturist in North America to beta test digital dentures with Ivoclar Vivadent and addressing the American College of Prosthodontists at their annual meeting — the first denturist ever to speak at this highly regarded conference.
In his constant pursuit of excellence, Kukucka is always working on improving his craft, which he views as an essential component of getting ahead in the industry.
“You’re only as good as your next denture or your next patient,” he says. “Ask yourself: What could you have done better on that one that you’ll do for the next? Practice that mantra and you’ll always be chasing greatness.”
As the only denturist on a clinical team of doctors at Aspen Dental, Kukucka educates dental practitioners on the art and science of creating superior dentures by training in a hands-on and virtual environment as well as mentorship and day-to-day support. His role also includes digital transformation of dentures across 1,100+ locations, working with product teams and marketing teams to enhance patient education materials, and upskilling lab technicians to improve the quality of their dentures. Every Aspen Dental location has an on-site lab for dentures.
With his experience at the forefront of digital denturism, he’s now guiding doctors in the Aspen Dental network through their digital transformation as their clinics adapt to the changing landscape. By leveraging 3D printing and digital design software, he’s helping clinicians streamline the denture creation process and improve the overall patient experience.
“When you think about the process of making a denture, there are so many opportunities for error along the way. It’s like a puzzle where everything has to be perfectly matched up,” he says. “With digital technology, you can mitigate seventy-five per cent of those errors.”
Despite his enthusiasm for digital innovation, Kukucka believes denturists still need a thorough understanding of the analogue fundamentals.
“You’ll get students who ask, ‘What’s the point in learning the analogue process anymore?’” he says. “I want students to understand that they need that elementary institutional knowledge so they can appreciate, respect, and learn to evaluate and implement new technology.”
Looking back at his time at George Brown College, Kukucka credits the Denturism program for providing him with a solid foundation in removable prosthodontics and a high level of professionalism. And his connection with GBC extends beyond his student years. A testament to the college’s strong network of graduates, Kukucka hired multiple alumni from the program in his former private practice.
“Without George Brown, I wouldn’t be where I am today,” he says. “It set me up for success as a denturist and laid the groundwork for launching my career into working for the largest branded DSO in the world. ”
When asked for his advice to current students and aspiring denturists, he underscores the importance of hard work and continuous improvement.
“Success won’t happen overnight — you have to make your own success,” he says. “Don’t come out thinking you already know everything. Be open-minded, listen to those who have experience, and keep learning and stay connected.”
Learn more about Alumni Relations by signing up for our newsletter, and check out our upcoming events and initiatives.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.