
Stop for a moment and take a deep breath. This is a difficult time and it’s okay if you are feeling overwhelmed with all that is occurring in our world. To help to create a little more stability, George Brown College Counsellor Lavlet Forde has some suggestions on how to create healthy routines while working at home.
To develop healthy routines, begin with creating a schedule. People are most productive when following a schedule that aligns with their productivity style. For example, if you know you work best in the morning, make sure that mornings remain a dedicated time for completing important projects.
Take some time to consider what tasks you would like to complete over the next few days – including projects and assignments, exercise and connecting with others. Roughly estimate how much time you would like to dedicate to these responsibilities and activities, and then create a schedule that blocks off time for each of them.
A dedicated workspace can help you focus on the tasks you are trying to complete. Your workspace doesn’t have to be anything elaborate – a desk, kitchen table and/or countertop all work well. Clear off the surface area, gather all of your supplies (pens, paper, computer, etc.) and have a few snacks nearby and your water bottle to stay hydrated.
Consider trying out a few locations in your home to see which workspace works best for you. Once you’ve found the best spot, try to keep working in the same space each day. A consistent and dedicated workspace will help your mind and body focus. Check out this great video on how to create a productive workspace.
Try to continue to go to bed and wake up at the same time. A consistent sleep schedule will help you be more productive. Want some tips on how to get a good night’s sleep? Check out this video for tips on getting a good night's sleep.
Here are a few other tips to help with your morning routine: 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.