
The Office of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services team strives to acknowledge, promote, appreciate and value the presence of varied experiences or qualities within individuals or groups.
We want to recognize, and aim to reconcile, historic and systemic barriers through advising and educating, and by facilitating a fair and equitable complaints resolution process.
Our advisors, and the team as a whole, cover a variety of areas and issues that impact the George Brown community, both on and off campus including human rights, discrimination, harassment, sexual violence, accessibility, anti-racism, diversity, positive spaces, LGBTQ2A+ community, equity and more.
As advisors at George Brown, we:
We offer one-on-one, group, and online workshops to
To schedule a workshop, please contact: diversity@georgebrown.ca
We all have a right to work and study in an environment that is free from harassment and discrimination.
It is the responsibility of all members of the George Brown College Community to review and comply with the Human Rights Discrimination and Harassment Policy.
We also recommend that you view the human rights code for the province so that you understand your rights and responsibilities.
"…it is public policy in Ontario to recognize the dignity and worth of every person and to provide for equal rights and opportunities without discrimination that is contrary to law, and having as its aim the creation of a climate of understanding and mutual respect for the dignity and worth of each person so that each person feels a part of the community and able to contribute fully to the development and well-being of the community and the Province…" - Ontario Human Rights Code, R.S.O. 1990, c. H. 19
Read the Ontario Human Rights Code
We organize and run campaigns throughout the year with the goal of promoting inclusiveness on campus. You can learn more about these campaigns below.
This is a collaboration of members of the LGBTQ2A+ community and their allies who acknowledge the importance of creating Positive Spaces. This event is held in the first week of June
We commission artists who are allies and/or from the LGBTQ2A+ community, artists who identify as indigenous, racialized artists, non-binary artists, and/or artists with disabilities to create unique valentines that are available on campus.
http://www.nbdcampaign.ca/
Providing a safe, welcoming environment for members of the LGBTQ2A+ community is a matter of personal dignity and safety. At George Brown, we expect all people, regardless of gender identity and sexual orientation to be treated with dignity and respect.
Students wishing to change their given name on George Brown College records must contact Debbie Cornwall (dcornwall@georgebrown.ca) in Student Services. Staff and Faculty wishing to change their names must contact Human Resources (hr@georgebrown.ca).
Being an ally is an important step to ensuring George Brown is a positive space. Here are some tips on how to be an ally, not only on campus but in your everyday life:
We are committed to maintaining an environment that is free of discrimination and harassment. If you feel you have experienced discrimination or harassment, we have a complaints resolution process in place to help you. Our department is dedicated to engaging in a consistent, transparent process to resolve any complaints that we receive.
The first step in the complaints resolution process is to make an intake appointment. These appointments can be in-person or on the phone.
The purpose of an intake appointment is to give you the opportunity to:
Our department will review your report or complaint and determine how to proceed. We will work with you to come to a resolution and support you with the next steps.
Check this visual representation of the Complaints Resolution Process
If you would like to make an appointment or contact us, please use the form below:
SUBMIT A FORM
Here are some resources about human rights that you may find helpful:
We've put together some human rights self-help resources. Check them out below:
If you have any questions or concerns or you would like to schedule an intake appointment, you can reach us by phone at (416) 415-5000, ext. 3668, or by email at diversity@georgebrown.ca
Casa Loma Campus: 160 Kendal Ave, Room C221B
St. James Campus: 200 King Street East, Room 246D
Waterfront Campus: 51 Dockside Drive, Room 230
Acknowledgement of Traditional Land: We would like to acknowledge that George Brown College is located on the traditional territory of the Mississaugas of the Credit First Nation and the land of other Indigenous Peoples that lived here over time.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.