
There are many options to transfer in to a George Brown program if you already have a credential from another college or university.
Transfer a group of courses completed at another college or university to a group of course in a George Brown program, usually equivalent to term or year of the program. You will generally be eligible to enter the George Brown program at a higher semester.
For example, if you have completed a 2 year program and earned your diploma, you may be eligible to transfer to the third year of an Advance Diploma.Block transfer opportunities to and from George Brown programs can be found in the Transfer Agreements and Opportunities Database.
For more information about applying for advanced standing to a program see How to Apply for Advanced Standing.
Transfer an individual course taken at another college or university to a course in a program at George Brown. You can find a list of equivalents in our Course-to-Course Equivalencies Database. If your course is not there, review the Guide to Selecting Courses Eligible for Transfer Credit to help you determine if you can use your previous course toward credit at George Brown.If you are taking a program at George Brown that is not similar to your previous program, individual transfer credits may still be possible. Most programs require College English and electives which are your best opportunities for transfer credits. Check out General Education and Liberal Studies Electives and course outlines for College English as well as the Guide to Selecting Courses Eligible for Transfer Credit.
Apply for individual course transfer credits through STU-VIEW. For more information on the application process for individual transfer credits, see How to Apply for Transfer Credits Online and the video How to Apply for Transfer Credits.
Post-Secondary Students: Apply each term for courses you are eligible to register in. See Important Dates for specific dates the application opens and closes.General Education and Liberal Studies Electives: Apply for all your electives in one semester, ideally your first term.
Continuing Education: Any time in the term
For more information about transferring courses from one George Brown program to another, see Transfer Credits within GBC.
There are many programs that have a fast-track option, allowing you to complete the diploma or advanced diploma in fewer semesters if you already have a diploma or degree. Fast-track options can be found in the Transfer Agreements and Opportunities Database or see the Fast-Track Program quick list.
We have many diploma to degree options. Search our Transfer Agreements and Opportunities Database to find opportunities to enter a degree program from your diploma or advance diploma and complete the program is fewer semesters or see the Diploma-to-Degree Bridging quick list.
If you already have a college diploma or degree, George Brown offers career focused postgraduate programs in many academic areas. Develop real-world job skills, gain hands-on industry experience and make valuable contacts in your chosen sector in just 8 – 12 months. We have many post-grad opportunities in a variety of interests. See Postgraduate Programs for more information.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.