
Transfer credit achieved from individual courses at a previous college or university to a course in a certificate, diploma or degree program at George Brown. You can find a list of course equivalents in our Course-to-Course Equivalencies Database. If your course is not there, review the Guide to Selecting Courses Eligible for Transfer Credit to help you determine if you can use your previous course toward credit at George Brown.
Individual transfer credits may still be possible even if you are taking a program at George Brown that is not similar to your previous program. Most programs require College English and electives which are your best opportunities for transfer credits. Check out General Education and Liberal Studies Electives and Course Outlines for College English for more information.
Apply for individual course transfer credits through STU-VIEW. For more information on the application process for individual transfer credits, see How to Apply for Transfer Credits Online and the video How to Apply for Transfer Credits.
Post-Secondary Students: Apply each term for courses you are eligible to register in. See Important Dates for specific dates the application opens and closes.General Education and Liberal Studies Electives: Apply for all your electives in one semester, ideally your first term.
Continuing Education: Any time in the term
Using a course from one George Brown program in another George Brown program is considered internal transfer credits. For more information, see Transfer Credits within GBC
A group of courses completed at another college may be equivalent to those in a George Brown program. You may be eligible to enter the program at a higher semester.
It is not always necessary to graduate from a program to transfer a block of courses. If you complete the first year of a program you may be able to complete the remaining semesters at George Brown.
Block transfer opportunities to a George Brown programs can be found in the Transfer Agreements and Opportunities Database.
For more information about applying for advanced standing to a program see How to Apply for Advanced Standing.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.