
Looking to transfer between programs at George Brown College?
Find out how your credits from one George Brown program can be applied to another George Brown program.
Choose between the options below:
If you are currently or were previously in a full-time program or have taken Continuing Education courses, you may be able to use these credits towards a new program.
To determine whether your credits are eligible for internal transfer:
You may be required to carry out additional admissions procedures. Space in the program you wish to transfer to, may be limited. You should consult the George Brown Calendar and/or department directly for details.
Whether it’s from a certificate to a diploma or a diploma to an advance diploma, George Brown offers many opportunities to further your studies. If you are interested in another George Brown program, our Entry Advisors are able to assist you.
Block transfer opportunities to another George Brown program can be found in the Transfer Agreements and Opportunities Database.
Turn your diploma into a degree. George Brown has a variety of degree programs. Your diploma can be a pathway to completing the degree in less time. See our Diploma to Degree Bridging page for all
Expand your knowledge with one of our condensed fast-track programs, earning you an additional credential in less time. Your previous diploma allows you to complete the new program in fewer semesters
If you already have a George Brown College diploma or degree, a career-focused postgraduate programs could provide you with a competitive edge in the job market. In just eight to 12 months, you can develop real-world job skills, gain hands-on industry experience and make valuable contacts in your chosen sector.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.