
Ian Wigglesworth joined George Brown College in 2010 as Chair of the School of English as a Second Language (ESL) and in 2018 was appointed Dean, Centre for Preparatory & Liberal Studies.
Ian began his teaching career in Japan. He then taught English for Academic Purposes (EAP) at the University of Toronto and later moved to the administrative side to lead a large faculty team.
At George Brown, Ian was appointed interim Dean, Centre for Preparatory & Liberal Studies in 2016, before he was appointed Dean in January 2018. He oversaw the planning and relocation of the School of ESL to 341 King St. E. He spearheaded the creation of the post-secondary English for Academic Purposes program and led 15 colleges in the creation of an EAP articulation agreement – the first of its kind in Ontario – that created a new pathway for students to enter post-secondary study.
Ian also worked with the Educational Resources department to establish George Brown’s International English Language Testing System (IELTS) centre. 
Ian earned a Bachelor of History from York University, a Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL) certificate from the University of Toronto and a Bachelor of Education from Trent University. He earned his Master of Education (Information Technology) from a joint program at Memorial and Cape Breton universities. He is currently a PhD student at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education (OISE) at the University of Toronto in the Higher Education Community College Leadership program.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.