Pre-Arrival Information
Post-Arrival Information
Health Insurance
								
Local Transportation
Events and Activities
Push Notifications

									Smartphones are ubiquitous as we know, more than 80% of the world population is now
									connected with each other via smartphones and more than half of digital content is
									now consumed on smartphones.

								

									iCent app is specifically designed and built for international offices based on the
									concept of digitalizing handbook and making effective communication. iCent also
									addresses the need for internationalization with an underlying framework in place.
									Any manual and time consuming operations such as documentation collection can be
									automated as well, thus increasing staff productivity.
								

									In the age of smartphones, emails are no longer a preferred way to engage an
									audience long term, leading to poor response rates. It’s time to rethink user
									engagement to be more effective, fun, productive and gamified.


								

									Strategies used at international offices for user engagement pre-departure are not
									usually the same that may apply post-arrival, hence iCent suite is composed of a
									simple and unique feature library that lets you pick and choose different features
									at different times that best apply to the business needs. With iCent, staying on top
									of newcomer's and international student's success, well being, health, and
									engagement is simple and effective. With the power of push notifications, instant
									messaging, and an easy to use interface, your institution can make the most of your
									user engagement.
								

									One of the biggest benefits of utilizing business analytics and artificial
									intelligence is being able to identify the strengths and weaknesses to improve
									operational efficiency and enhance client support services.
								

									iCent suite has proven to be a powerful tool helping the international office in
									transforming data into actionable intelligence. The iCent BI, AI, analytics and
									infographics presents facts and meaningful data that further aids the leadership
									team with effective decision making and addressing real gaps and challenges.
								

									Business users are usually quite comfortable with composing emails, drafting news
									letters and creating presentations. We think, building an app should be within the
									realm of business activities too without needing one to learn programming.

								

									The iCent Champion Dashboard does just that, where the champion can add amazing text
									and media, drag and drop, and publish content. The power and control remains with
									the international office, so you can take up things one at a time and make updates
									to the app design and content as you like and when you like. You can even interface
									the app with third party softwares that you are already using at your international
									office and institution.
								

							Get a free demo of the iCent platform; know your benefits, ROI and Q&A
						

							Make a decision and relax; we will set up the app for you in no time
						

							Customized marketing and promotional material designed
						
