
GEORGE BROWN COLLEGE
This was a year of innovation and collaboration at George Brown College, as our community reimagined how we teach, learn and work during the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the many challenges, we remained focused on our Strategy 2022 objectives: Future Skills, Connections, New Ways of Teaching, Learning & Service Delivery, and Foundations for Success. And as you’ll see below, in many ways, the pandemic accelerated our progress.
As the province confronts the short- and long-term impacts of the pandemic, George Brown College is playing a key role in training and retraining workers, helping businesses recover and getting our economy back on track.
Download printable PDF
During the pandemic, we embraced new ways of teaching, learning and service delivery that allowed us to prepare the essential workers Ontario needs while accelerating our adoption of digital tools and technologies.
3,184
courses shifted from in-person toonline or hybrid delivery. [7]
people in
cities
around the world accessed our Online Learning microsite for resources andstrategies on effective remote learning. [8]
 
13,615
virtual tutoring sessions were provided throughour Tutoring and Learning Centre. [9]
When the pandemic limited the number of in-person placements available this year, we developed innovative new virtual work-integrated learning opportunities – allowing students to gain work experience with organizations across Ontario and around the world.
 
9,305
students completed virtual experiential learningopportunities, including:
 
8,211
remote work-integrated learning placements with employers.
 
42
entrepreneurship WIL placements with startGBC.
 
1,037
experiential learning projects completed through Riipen, a digital platform that allows students to tackle real, sector-specific challenges with industry partners.
 
15
virtual placements with international employers as part of a pilot program for traditionally underrepresented students, including students who are Black, Indigenous or People of Colour (BIPOC), have disabilities or have low incomes. [10]
To support a high-quality online learning experience for students, we delivered specialized professional development programming to our faculty and instructors, as well as drop-in consultation services and digital resources from our Teaching and Learning Exchange.
 
Building on our connections with organizations across Ontario and around the world, we've conducted vital research, created new learning opportunities and given back to our community.
George Brown donated medical and personal protective equipment to localhospitals and healthcare facilities including:
 
7,850
ear-loop and N95 masks
 
11,500
pairs of gloves
 
950
medical gowns
 
3
ventilators [4]
 
George Brown's childcare centres enabled parents and caregivers to work and keep the economy running by supporting:
 
550
children. [5]
More than
cloth masks
gowns
were designed and manufactured at George Brown’s Fashion Exchange,providing vital protection for essential workers and industry partners. [6]
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, innovation and adaptability have been integral to the success of local businesses. This year, our Research & Innovation team helped several industry partners tackle pandemic-related challenges, and this type of research support will play an increasingly important role in Ontario’s economic recovery:
Researchers from our Centre for Construction & Engineering Technology worked with Quantum Robotics Systems (QRS) to develop a more advanced physical prototype of their stair-climbing domestic robot, ROSA. The robot is an assistive device for seniors, disabled persons and caregivers, and offers non-contact delivery and mobile disinfection applications during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Our researchers also supported Java Group Programs in developing and testing a digital version of their peer support program for seniors, which allows care home residents to connect in a safe and meaningful way.
Although travel was restricted this year, we have continued to explore ways of fostering future success in the global economy. A new partnership with Erdiston Teachers’ Training College in Barbados will enable faculty exchanges and study abroad opportunities for early childhood education students – virtual for now, and in-person when it’s safe to do so – as well as joint research opportunities and business data analytics activities.
Students from our Health Informatics and Information Systems Business Analysis programs (including Sagar Varia, pictured) participated in a virtual health-care hackathon this spring, developing innovative ways to save time and improve social distancing in medical clinics using robotic process automation. George Brown teams won Top Overall Solution and Most Innovative Solution honours.
As the pace of change speeds up, we're working closely with industry and community partners to ensure learners build the skills our economy needs – both now and into the future.
of students come to George Brown to upskill for career advancement or reskill to enter a new field. [1]
frontline healthcare workers graduated between April 2020 and March 2021, including 255 nurses and 79 PSWs – workers who are essential to the GTA’s COVID-19 response. [2]
students were engaged through startGBC’s entrepreneurship-related workshops and activities this year. [3]
emerging entrepreneurs pitched a business or social enterprise idea through PITCH IT! GBC, with $10,000 awarded in seed funding. [3]
 
To learn more about how we’re supporting entrepreneurs, check out startGBC’s 2020-21 Impact Highlights.
Developed in partnership with employers, our new programs and placement opportunities address key gaps in the labour force.
Launched amid growing calls for systemic changes to long-term care in Ontario, our first-of-its-kind Interprofessional and Complex Long-term Care postgraduate program for health care workers was intentionally designed for online delivery and integrates simulation and problem-based learning to improve quality of care.
To address the critical shortage of personal support workers, George Brown launched an accelerated, tuition-free PSW program with a paid work placement, supported by the Ontario government. 
We also partnered with the Rekai Centres to develop a residency-style placement model that provides PSW students with immersive clinical training eight hours a day, four days a week.
Created in partnership with robotics solution provider GlobalDWS, the online Service Robotics micro-credential program guides students through the growth and development of the service robotics industry, as well as typical applications, current and future market trends.
We launched a first-in-Canada Honours Bachelor of Food Studies to prepare students to become agents of change in the culinary arts industry. The program combines hands-on skills with a comprehensive understanding of food justice, equity, sustainability and health.
Building strong and sustainable infrastructure will be an important part of our community’s recovery. That’s why we’re continuing to move forward with The Arbour, Ontario’s first mass-timber, low-carbon institutional building – the future home of our School of Computer Technology, School of Architectural Studies, a childcare centre and a research hub focused on mass-timber construction. This project will create job opportunities for a wide range of skilled workers, while helping establish more environmentally sustainable building practices.
We laid foundations for success by delivering on our anti-racism strategy and introducing new methods of supporting our students.
More than 
1,250
pieces of tech equipment were loaned to studentsfrom the Library Learning Commons, including:
 
769
laptops
 
280
iPads
 
207
portable Wi-Fi hubs for students without home internet access. [13]
2,800
student counselling appointments were delivered online,providing vital mental health support to students experiencingincreased stress and anxiety due to the pandemic. [14]
 
Our virtual orientation programming in September 2020 and January 2021 included:
 
18,396
participants
 
546
non-academic online events
 
184
academic program orientation online events [8]
 
93%
of new students who visited our Online Orientation microsite saidthey felt better prepared to start the semester after completingmodules on getting started at George Brown, accessing supportservices, connecting with classmates and more. [8]
 
Approximately 
73,000
pounds of food was delivered to George Brown students and their households through the Emergency Good Food Box program. [15]
 
More than 
$1M
was raised for the COVID-19 Student Emergency Fund, which supported students facing financial hardship due to the pandemic. This was made possible through a partnership between the Student Association, the George Brown College Foundation and the college, as well as the Government of Ontario’s emergency investment in higher education to support student success. [16]
A partnership between our Women Transitioning to Trades & Employment program and Hilti Canada is enabling more women, trans and non-binary people to enter the skilled trades. Participants gain access to scholarships, coaching, career planning support and employment opportunities, as well as a tool kit upon graduation.
To ensure that future frontline workers can complete their education and fill vital roles in our community, the George Brown College Foundation has created a scholarship fund for students studying health care, construction and other essential work.
More than 
$907,000
in scholarships was disbursed with an averagevalue of $1,212 per student. [16]
More than 
$3M
was raised by the George Brown College Foundation in 2020-2021 to fund scholarships, programming, capital improvements and special projects at the college. [16]
This was made possible by the generosity of our donors.
 
George Brown College is committed to addressing and eliminating the barriers faced by members of our community who are Black, Indigenous and People of Colour (BIPOC). While there is much work yet to be done in order to become a truly inclusive and equitable place to learn and work, we have taken a number of tangible steps this year, including: 
 
27,128full-time students(including 720 apprentices)
3,123part-time students
58,119Continuing Educationregistrations
29%
international students
 
164
full-time programs [17]
 
44
Centre for Arts, Design & Information Technology programs
 
27
Centre for Business programs
 
12
Centre for Community Services & Early Childhood programs
 
27
Centre for Construction & Engineering Technologies programs
 
26
Centre for Health Sciences programs
 
15
Centre for Hospitality & Culinary Arts programs
 
13
Centre for Preparatory & Liberal Studies programs
 
180
Continuing Education Certificates/Designations
 
George Brown was named one of Greater Toronto’sTop 100 Employers for 2021
This Impact Report was designed by Graphic Design students Natalie Franke and Emma Keat and Interaction Design student Tanya Khatcherian as part of the experiential learning initiative at George Brown’s IN Design studio.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.