
2019-20 was a transformative year, both for George Brown College and the world around us. We kicked off the academic year with the launch of our new strategic plan, Imagining Possibilities: Vision 2030/Strategy 2022, which harnessed the bold thinking of our community to define the future of education at George Brown. The innovative, collaborative mindset outlined in this plan guided us throughout 2019-20 as we introduced new partnerships, state-of-the-art learning and research facilities, and new ways of teaching and learning.
But the real test for this mindset came in March 2020, as the COVID-19 pandemic required us to pivot to an alternative delivery model in just one week. Teams from across the college collaborated on innovative new ways of supporting the success and well-being of our students, while also finding ways to give back to our community. Although it’s been a challenging time for all Canadians, we’re proud of the resilience and adaptability shown by our community, as well as the impact our students, graduates, employees and partners continue to make on our city and our province. Here are some highlights from 2019-20.

Download PDF
Strengthening Our Economy
Delivering Future Skills
Supporting Our Partners
Empowering Learners
George Brown at a Glance
63%
of George Brown students plan to work in the GTA after graduation, becoming the city’s nurses, early childhood educators,entrepreneurs, construction managers, chefs, gerontology workers, business and community leaders, volunteers and more. [1]
 
89%
of employers are satisfied with the George Brown graduates they’ve hired. [2]

 
George Brownsupported
94
start-up entrepreneurs thisyear through ourentrepreneurship hub,startGBC.These entrepreneurs...
created
75
new jobs
launched
306
new products and services
reported
$2.6M
in sales. [3]
100%
of George Brown’s career-focused programs* included at least one experiential learning opportunity. [4]*Excludes upgrading and preparatory programs.
 
2,940
students were engaged through entrepreneurship-related workshops, outreach events and activities this year. [5]


 
How are digital disruption, artificial intelligence and the gig economy shaping the future of work? And what does this mean for job seekers? Find out in George Brown’s podcast, Work Shift, which launched this year.
90
partners worked with George Brown’s Research & Innovationteam to design, prototype or test new products and services:
micro businesses
small and medium-sized enterprises
large businesses
Including:
23
start-ups. [6]

Our applied research teams supported the development of:
546
prototypes
81
new products
4
new services. [7]
To learn more about partnering with George Brown on applied research, program development, work-integrated learning and more, visit our Partnership page.
 
 
37%
of students are the first in their familyto receive a post-secondary education. [8]
 
 
More than
 
$2.7M
 
in funding for scholarships, programming, capital improvements and special projects was provided through the George Brown College Foundation.
1,588
scholarships were disbursed to students – the largest amount in ourFoundation’s history – with an average value of 
$1,273 [9]

These scholarships and projects were madepossible by the generosity of our donors.
Donor list

31,328
full-time students(including 1,183 apprentices)
3,013
part-time students
64,531
Continuing Educationregistrations

 
 
172
full-time programs

44
Centre for Arts, Design & Information Technology programs
26
Centre for Business programs
12
Centre for Community Services & Early Childhood programs
29
Centre for Construction & Engineering Technologies programs
25
Centre for Health Sciences programs
17
Centre for Hospitality & Culinary Arts programs
19
Centre for Preparatory & Liberal Studies programs
180
Continuing Education Certificates/Designations


George Brown was named one ofGreater Toronto’s Top 100Employers for 2020

This Impact Report was designed by Graphic Design students Lee Jong and Christopher Ensoll,as part of the experiential learning initiative at George Brown’s IN Design studio.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.