
In an emergency, please phone emergency services (police, fire, ambulance) at 911 and Security at (416) 415-4000, or "0" from a George Brown College internal Cisco phone.
R – Remove all occupantsE – Enclose the area you are leavingA – Activate the Fire AlarmC – Call Campus SecurityT – Take the stairs 
Other Emergency Procedures.
We strongly recommend downloading the GBC Safety app for a safer semester on campus.  
The app allows you to call emergency services (both 911 and campus security) at the touch of a button, send your live location to GBC Security if you need assistance on campus or to a trusted friend when travelling, and report a tip of any safety concern or suspicious activity on campus.
We also encourage you to watch our safety videos, which will allow you to better prepare for an emergency should it happen on campus. These videos explain what to do in the event of a shelter-in-place, lockdown or hold and secure. 
Download the GBC Safety app:
The college constantly monitors the potential impact of weather and other emergencies on classes as well as the opening of campuses, services, and associated child care centres. In the event that classes are cancelled, the announcement will be made via the George Brown website (www.georgebrown.ca), local radio and television stations and through the main college phone line at (416) 415-2000. Unless or until specific notification of cancellations or closures is made, the college will remain open and the George Brown community should presume classes will continue as scheduled.
How to find out if the college is closed due to bad weather or other circumstances beyond its control:Check the Web:Updates will be posted on www.georgebrown.ca on a regular basis.Listen to the radio or TV:George Brown will notify the following radio and TV stations if the college is closed due to bad weather.
RADIO:
TELEVISION:
Call the college:For information about whether the college is closed or classes are cancelled call:416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or toll-free 1-800-265-2002.OTHER WEATHER LINKS:
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.