
The Indigenous Education Council (IEC) is committed to addressing Indigenous education issues at George Brown College so that a collaborative effort of college and community may better serve Indigenous students. The council works to ensure that Indigenous worldview, needs and issues influence the decision-making process of the college and are reflected throughout curriculum and classroom practices and services.
Indigenous Education Council (IEC)
The Indigenous Education Council is an advisory committee to the College’s President, Board of Governors and the Indigenous Initiatives department.
Our commitment to helping Indigenous students achieve their fullest potential plays an essential role in developing an institutional strategy for meeting Indigenous student and community educational needs, as well as further creating an environment of social inclusion – one that seeks and promotes intercultural sharing.  Indigenous refers to the original peoples – First Nation, Inuit and Métis.
To provide strategic advice to George Brown College to ensure that Indigenous learners are effectively recruited, engaged and supported in addressing their higher education. To further ensure a  that community training needs are addressed.
The Indigenous Education council is committed to addressing Indigenous Education at George Brown College so we may ensure that Indigenous students seven generations hereafter, will have culturally appropriate education available to them. 
The Indigenous Education Council will strive to assist in making continuous progress towards achieving measurable outcomes within Indigenous Education at George Brown College through the provision of strategic advice and feedback.  We also recognize that this is going to be a long-term initiative that requires mutual commitment and work.  
The Indigenous Education Council will convene quarterly meetings.
The College will provide financial reimbursement for the cost of travel and meal expenses for all members to attend Council meetings as per College guidelines and/or an honorarium.
The Indigenous Education Council will consist of:
The Quorum shall consist of 50 percent plus one (1) of the voting membership of the Indigenous Education Council.
These terms of reference will be reviewed, every two years, each August, and changes will be recommended/made as deemed appropriate by the members of the Indigenous Education Council. 
Council members will maintain the confidentiality of any and all information, discussions, or proceedings taking place at sessions of the council. Where a matter is to be considered by the council as confidential, the Council Chair will inform council members that the information being discussed will remain confidential throughout the meeting and thereafter.
Council members will act with honesty, in good faith, and in the best interests of the IEC. If a conflict ofinterest arises, the member will declare such and remove themselves from all proceedings related to the conflict.
The Council may remove a member from the Council by a resolution of the Council according to the IEC Removal of Council Members process.
Chair, Frances Sanderson, Nishnawbe Homes,nishnawbehomes@rogers.com
Carolyn King, Moccasin Identifier Project,kingcar532@gmail.com
Teagan De Laronde, University of Toronto,teagandelaronde8@gmail.com 
Lisa Sault, Mississaugas of the Credit First Nation,lisamsault1984@gmail.com
Savanna Chiblow, Indigenous Screen Office,savanna.chiblow@gmail.com 
Audrey Rochette, Executive Director, Anishnawbe Health Foundation,arochette@aht.ca
David Wolfman, Director, Indigenous Initiatives,dwolfman@georgebrown.ca
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.