
Please join us for an upcoming information session.
Attending an information session can be a great way to learn more about our programs, see our facilities and have your questions answered by George Brown's knowledgeable faculty & staff. We offer info sessions with general information about how to pay for college or studying as a mature student, as well as sessions for specific schools or programs.
Whatever your reasons for going back to a life of learning, you may find yourself in a very different educational environment, and this 45 minute session will provide insight into adult learning at George Brown College.
 
Better Jobs Ontario has replaced the Second Career program. The program now offers increased eligibility for the unemployed and underemployed as well as those on social assistance, gig workers, youth and newcomers to Ontario. Please visit …
How to Apply for College info session will help to explain topics such as applying to full-time programs at George Brown College, taking note of key dates and covering frequently asked questions.
This online workshop will help to explain topics such as budgeting, OSAP, student loans, scholarship, bursaries and grants.
Join us for an upcoming information session to learn more about our programs, campuses and services available to students presented by our international recruitment representatives. 
The session will include a presentation on all the program, a workshop on how to prepare a successful portfolio, and a tour of our new facilities.
Come and learn about our Concept Art for Entertainment program (Postgraduate) (G407) program and tour our new facilities online.
Interested in learning more about our Dance programs? Please join us for an ONLINE information session and learn more.
Please attend an online information session to learn more about our Design Management (G401) program.
The School of Design information session will include brief presentations on all three programs and an opportunity to tour our new facilities online.
Information sessions for George Brown College Fashion programs
Interested in learning more about our Game - Art (G119/G129) program? Please come to the School of Design for an information session.
Brief presentations on Graphic Design program, a workshop on how to prepare a successful portfolio, and an opportunity to tour our new facilities.
Learn more about our Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design (G301) program at the School of Design information session.
Come to the School of Design for an information session that include brief presentation on the G302 program and an opportunity to tour our new facilities.
Come to the School of Design for an information session that include brief presentation on G113 program and an opportunity to tour our new facilities.
Learn more about our Interactive Media Management Program (Postgraduate) (G412) program. Come to the School of Design for an information session.
Please come for an information session to learn more about Interdisciplinary Design Strategy at the Institute Without Boundaries (G414) program.
Information Sessions are held regularly at the School of Computer Technology. Learn about the program content and career options.
Interested in learning more about our Web Development – Front-End Design (G418) program?
Learn more about our Honours Bachelor of Brand Design (G304) program at the School of Design information session.
Contact School of Deaf and Deafblind Studies: 416-415-5000, ext. 2185Email: deafstudies@georgebrown.ca
Program Co-ordinator: Erika Stebbings, Erika.Stebbings@georgebrown.ca
Want…
Online Assaulted Women's and Children's Counsellor/Advocate info session - learn about the program content and career options.
Online Assaulted Women's and Children's Counsellor/Advocate info session - learn about the program content and career options.
Watch this previously recorded information session to learn more about the …
Learn more about the program content and career options and meet your friendly Professors and staff.
Come to Community Worker (Accelerated) program info session to learn about the program content and career options and meet your professors and staff.
Attend a Community Worker info session to learn about the program content and career options and meet your friendly Professors and staff.
Attend a Deafblind & Intervenor Studies program info session to learn about the program content and career options and meet your friendly professors and staff.
Prior to registering and attending a mandatory program screening session, all applicants are required to view the Program Information Session videos.
Applicants to the Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (ASL) (C302) are required to go through screening of their English and ASL skills.
Interested to learn more about the Pre-Community Services Program at George Brown College?
Watch a Social Service Worker (Accelerated) Program info session to learn about the program content and career options and meet your professors.
Attend a Social Service Worker program info session to learn about the program content and career options and meet your friendly professors and staff.
Attend an Autism and Behavioural Science info session to learn about the program content, career options and meet your professors and staff.
Information sessions for Behavioural Science Technician (Accelerated) (C156) are held online. Have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options and meet your friendly professors and staff. 
Information sessions for the Behavioural Science Technician Program (C146) are held at the School of Health and Wellness. Join this session to have your questions answered, to learn about the program content and career options from you friendly professors.
Come to Clinical Methods in Orthotics / Prosthetics info session to learn about the program content and career options and meet your professors.
This previously recorded info session for Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) (S113) is delivered by Program Co-ordinator, Alicia Marshall.
Watch this previously recorded information session to learn more about the Dental Hygiene (S134) content and potential career options. This information session is delivered by Program Co-ordinator, Joanna Asadoorian.
Join a Dental Office Administration program info session to learn about the program content and career options and meet your professors and staff.
Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options and meet your friendly Professors and staff
Attend a Health Information Management Program info session to learn about the program content, career options and meet your professors and staff.
Watch this previously recorded information session to learn more about the …
Join an Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis program info session to learn about the program content and career options and meet your professors.
Watch this previously recorded information session to learn more about the Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care (S417) program content and potential career opportunities. This information session is delivered by Program Co-ordinator, Dr. Alison Ross.
Want to learn more about the Office…
Information sessions for Orthotic / Prosthetic Technician (S102) are held twice a year in November and January at our Sunnybrook Campus. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options and meet your friendly Professors and staff. Experience what it is…
Those interested in applying for the next intake of the PSW program are invited to attend an information session. All information sessions will be held online.
Want to learn more about the Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119) program? Watch this previously recorded online information session.
Watch this previously recorded information session to learn more about the R.P.N. Bridge to B.Sc.N. (Postgraduate) (S442) program content.
Watch this previously recorded information session to learn more about Recreation Management in Gerontology (C152) program content, career options and learn what it’s like to be a George Brown College student.
Want to learn more about the Restorative Dental Hygiene (S400) program?
Attend a 45 minute ONLINE session to get insight into the potential of careers within the Skilled Trades.
This previously recorded information session will give you an overview of Business Administration Program (with work experience) B155.
This pre-recorded information session will give you an overview of Business – Human Resources Program B134
This pre-recorded information session will give you an overview of Business Administration – Human Resources Program (B144).
This pre-recorded information session will give you an overview of Business Administration – Human Resources Program (with work experience) B154.
This prerecorded information session will give you an overview of Business Administration – International Business Program B131.
This prerecorded information session will give you an overview of Business Administration – Marketing (B108).
This prerecorded information session will give you an overview of Business Administration – Project Management Program (B126) 
This prerecorded information session will give you an overview of Business Administration – Project Management Program (with work experience) B156.
This prerecorded information session will give you an overview of Business Administration – International Business Program (with work experience) B161
Learn about the business program content and business career options and meet your friendly Centre for Business Professors and staff.
This 20 minute ONLINE session will provide an overview of George Brown College and the Entrepreneurship Management (Postgraduate - B416) program. 
This 20 minute ONLINE session will provide an overview of George Brown College and Financial Planning Program (Postgraduate B407). You will be able to ask questions and get career insights and resource information.
Have your questions answered and learn more about the program and future career options from the comfort of your desk.
Learn more about Pre-Business Services (A146) program. Please complete and submit the form below to hold your place for our next information session.
This 30 minute ONLINE session will provide an overview of George Brown College and the Project Management Program (Postgraduate) B415.
This prerecorded information session will give you an overview of Project Management Program (Postgraduate) B415.
This 20 minute ONLINE session will provide an overview of the program. Ask questions, get career insights and resource information. 
Learn how this program can help English-speaking adults improve reading, writing, math, and science skills to prepare for entering college.
Do you have an Intellectual Disability or identify as neurodiverse and are looking for support in preparing and transitioning to the workplace? Attend an info session about George Brown's…
Interested to learn more about Construction Craft Worker Foundations Program?
Information sessions for Culinary Skills (Preparatory Training) are being held regularly.
Attend an upcoming online information sessions to learn more about the General Arts and Science - English for Academic Purposes Program.
Come to General Arts and Sciences Programs info session and learn about the program content and career options and meet your friendly professors.
Attend an Online Information Session for the Transitions to Post-Secondary Education Program.
Discover why George Brown is the best place to learn culinary and chef skills with industry connections to succeed in Culinary Arts, Hospitality and Tourism!
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.