
We welcome all applications, however, prior to accepting an offer of employment you must provide documents confirming your eligibility to legally work in Canada.  Information regarding Immigration rules and processes can be accessed at the Government of Canada website.
Please visit our Career Site and select the type of job opportunity you are interested in (Full-Time Employment Opportunities or Temporary & Contract.
All our Sessional, Part-Time, Temporary, and Continuing Education teaching opportunities are located under the Temporary and Contract Employment Opportunities page of our Career Site.
Once you have identified a position you are interested in, click on the position title and click “Apply Now” found at the top left hand corner of the page.  Unfortunately, applications that are faxed, mailed in, or dropped off will not be accepted as part of our recruitment process.   
If this is your first time logging in to our system, you will be asked to create a profile with a username and password that will be used each time you log in and to receive and accept any subsequent offers of employment.
If you are a current employee or were employed with George Brown College within the past two years, we ask that you apply through our Career Site using your employee ID (example – 123456789@georgebrown.ca).
Microsoft Word and PDF files are the most popular options amongst job applicants.  You can also use Text, HTML, and similar formats.
Yes, we encourage you to thoroughly review our job opportunities and to determine which positions align with your skills, qualifications, and career goals.
All applications must be submitted to us using the online system through the Career Site to be considered unless the job posting specifically states otherwise.
If you face any technical difficulties, please send a screenshot of the error message to hr@georgebrown.ca and we will get back to you to assist with your application. The screenshot enables us to investigate and work towards fixing the technical issue. If the issue cannot be fixed within the application closing date, we will accept your email application. 
If the position is posted with an application deadline, the posting will close and be removed from our Career Page, not allowing further applicants to submit their application.  If, after a thorough evaluation and interview process, we do not find a qualified candidate, the position may be re-posted, and you will be able to apply to the position.  
You will not be able to apply if the job is not visible on our Career site.  Some external websites such as LinkedIn and Indeed function as job aggregators and scrape our positions which we cannot control.
You will receive an automated e-mail notification confirming the receipt of your application.  Due to the volume of applications we receive, we are unable to respond to specific inquiries regarding the status of your application.
Yes, you can log in to your online profile and make changes to your applications as needed by clicking on “Edit Application.”  Please note that all your changes and edits must be made before the closing date in the job posting. 
George Brown College strives to promote internal talent.  First consideration is always given to our qualified internal employees.  If, after reviewing these applications, an applicant with the necessary skills and qualifications is not found, George Brown College will proceed to review other applications.
Your application will be assessed relative to the required skills, competencies, and qualifications listed on the job posting.  Additional questions may be asked as you submit your online application for further assessment of your candidacy. 
We value the time each candidate invests in carefully submitting their application for consideration.  Due to the volume of applications we receive for each vacancy, we will only contact those candidates who will be considered for an interview. You can also check the status of your application by logging in to your online profile and selecting “Application Status.”
You can check your application status by logging into our career site and selecting “Application Status.”  If your status is: 
In review - this indicates your application is being reviewed or will be reviewed.
Closed - this indicates that your application is no longer being considered for the vacancy.
 At this time, we require that you submit an application for each posted position that is of interest to you. 
We encourage you to take the time to thoroughly review the job posting.  Your application will be assessed against the qualifications, skills, and experiences outlined in the job posting. Make sure your application clearly demonstrates how you meet the requirements of the role. Once you are ready to apply, ensure that you have checked for spelling and grammatical errors and that you are attaching all required documents to your application as outlined in the job posting.
If you are selected as a qualified match to the role, you can expect to have a preliminary conversation with a member of the Talent Acquisition team. In some cases, a phone interview will be the first step. Following that, you would be invited to participate in a panel interview and a possible second panel interview. Reference and educational credential checks would follow and then a verbal offer would be made to the successful candidate. 
During the recruitment process, your academic credentials or designations will require validation. One of the following outcomes is possible:
Currently we post most vacant positions on a weekly basis and encourage you to check back frequently to view new opportunities.  
Some of our vacant positions are advertised and posted until an offer of employment has been extended and accepted by the successful candidate.  We encourage you to apply to positions as soon as possible even in such circumstances as applications are reviewed on a first come first served basis.
George Brown College is dedicated to employment equity and encourages applications from people of all genders, persons with disabilities, racial/visible minorities and Indigenous peoples.Any factors unrelated to job qualifications do not influence our decisions when hiring employees.
George Brown College is committed to accommodating applicants with disabilities throughout the hiring process, in accordance with the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA).  The Human Resources representative responsible for the recruitment for this position will work with applicants requesting accommodation at any stage of the recruitment process.
 All collective agreements can be accessed by visiting the College Employer Council website.
 If you forgot your password after creating a profile please click on “Forgot Password or Need to Create New Password” and follow the steps provided.
Please direct any questions to hr@georgebrown.ca and allow 1-2 business days for a response. 
 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.