
The TLC is open for in-person and online tutoring! Learn how to log in with your GBC credentials. Book now!
Whether you're new to the TLC or a veteran supporter of our services, you can find all the information you need to connect your students to the support we offer.
The TLC has a number of initiatives in place to complement classroom instruction and to help in the success of your students. Some of these include:
Every semester the TLC Advisor at all three campuses does promotion in the form of class visits. These visits are short (i.e. 5-10 minutes) and are to promote the TLC and the services we provide. If you would like an Advisor to visit your classroom, please visit Contact Us for the appropriate contact information and we would be happy to accommodate.
The TLC Advisor is able to run workshops at the request of faculty as a complement to classroom instruction. Examples include refresher workshops on APA or MLA formatting; paraphrasing, quoting, summarizing; proofreading strategies; reading strategies: scanning, skimming, etc. These workshops are usually offered at the TLC outside of regular class hours, but can also be arranged to be offered in class.
The TLC works, in large part, by word of mouth and referrals from the faculty. If you feel that your students could benefit from our services, please direct them to our website. We would also be happy to provide a promotional poster to post on Blackboard.
If you would like to refer a student to the TLC:
English Referral Form   Math Referral Form
We welcome faculty referrals for students wanting to work in the TLC. If you have a student who has a strong academic background and you think he or she would be a suitable tutor in the TLC, please consult with the student and then send your recommendation to the TLC Advisor at your campus. Faculty referrals are an important part of our interview process and we welcome your input.
Please note that while we value the recommendation, a referral from faculty is not a guarantee that the student will be hired. For information on the hiring process, please visit How to Become a Tutor.
If you have further questions please feel free to contact the TLC Advisor at your campus (for math, please contact the TLC Math Advisor).
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.