
As a highly regarded post-secondary institution, George Brown College prides itself on being a steward of public trust. The Office of Institutional Research & Planning (IRP) supports transparency College-wide by providing accurate, useful, and relevant information to all stakeholders. Using GBC’s Strategy 20202/Vision 2030 as a guide, this document describes the ways in which IRP supports and contributes to growth at the College.
The mission of IRP is to enhance institutional effectiveness by providing accurate analysis and insightful institutionally-based research of high relevance to the GBC community. Our analysis and recommendations are used to facilitate strategic planning, accountability, institutional assessment, quality assurance, and to inform policy formation. IRP facilitates knowledge transfer by operating as the central organizational unit for disseminating data and studies about GBC to staff and the public.
Through the provision of sound evidence and expert analysis and advice, the Office of Institutional Research and Planning will be integral to meeting Strategy 2022/Vision 2030 objectives.
The Office of Institutional Research and Planning directs ongoing operational activities as well as initiating and directing research projects. The Office:
*‘High impact’ is defined by IRP as projects that are highly aligned with the Strategy 2022/Vision 2030, have the potential to significantly impact student success, and inform strategic decisions or change in practice to benefit students or the college.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.