
As Associate Vice-President, Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights, Jennifer Grant leads the college's organizational change efforts to introduce and support embedding anti-racist, equity, diversity and inclusive practices in our community. Jennifer believes that organizations (particularly in the education sector) are duty-bound to create environments that are inclusive, equitable, safe and just. Jennifer brings a unique combination of skills to lead this important work. As a former child and youth worker, youth advocate, faculty member and mother of one child and two pets, Jennifer has over two decades, of leading and managing various systems of care, including Mental Health, Child Welfare and Youth Justice. Jennifer has supported leaders, mental health practitioners and educators in developing and operationalizing leading-edge community-responsive practices and policies that go beyond statements and commitments and create meaningful outcomes for all stakeholders.   
Prior to her AVP appointment in January 2023, Jennifer was Director of the Office of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services (OAREHRS). She led the development of the college's first Anti-Racism Strategy and Action Plan. In addition, Jennifer expanded the scope of OAREHRS' mandate and enhanced awareness of its activities across the college, establishing the office as a significant driver for George Brown's actions as guided by Strategy 2026/Vision 2030.  
Jennifer's accomplishments include the following:  
Jennifer is a leader who believes in working with others to co-create an environment where power is shared and principled accountability and excellence are valued. She has relied on her curiosity, creativity, and empathy to develop innovative solutions to staffing and institutional challenges, approaching these situations as opportunities for growth and change. 
A dedicated and lifelong learner, Jennifer earned a Master of Education in Adult Education and Community Development from the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education (OISE) - University of Toronto, a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology from McMaster University, Voluntary Sector- Non-Profit Management Certification and a Child and Youth Work diploma from George Brown College
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.