
Creativity and attention to detail are only some of the skills needed to succeed in the jewellery industry or as an independent artist. George Brown College can help you develop the rest.
“It is a pleasure to support a program that is so well run. GBC is the pre-eminent jewellery school in North America - it is truly unparalleled in the industry. I congratulate all the teachers and staff for the quality of training you provide to students”- Barbara Heinrich, President, American Jewelry Design Council
We are one of North America’s largest and best-equipped jewellery schools and we offer the only full-time gemmology certificate program in Ontario. You’ll get to work with your hands and learn from faculty who are experts in this growing industry, using precious metals and gems in a hands-on environment with state-of-the-art tools and equipment. We’ll help you gain the technical skills necessary to translate your creative designs into tangible works of art.
Our solid partnerships with the jewellery industry ensure our students are learning required standards and meeting the needs of the jewellery world upon graduation. These partnerships (over 250 of them) help facilitate field education opportunities where students gain experiential learning as well as a major year-end jewellery exhibit and industry-sponsored awards show.
Try our Entry Advising service. It’s a free George Brown College service that matches your academic skills, educational background and career goals with options from the college's programs.
For more detailed information into what each Jewellery program offers as well as what careers they lead to, you can watch this recording of an Online Information Session hosted by Paul McClure, Program Coordinator earlier this year.  Paul describes the different programs, pathways between programs, the learning environment, and many samples of student course work and faculty work.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.