
Changes to our LLC Laptop Loan Policy as of December 18, 2023; visit Library News & Services to read more.
Did you know that you can sign out both PC and Mac laptops for use on campus?We ask that you please return all technology equipment to the LLC location you borrowed it from. 
Changes to LLC Laptop Loan Policy
As of Dec 18, 2023, the LLC laptop loan period returned to 8 hours.We will have a limited number of devices available for a one-week loan period. Continuing Education students will be eligible to borrow laptops for 8 hour loans. Centre for Business students may be eligible for longer term loans depending on their course registration.We will also lower the laptop late fee from $5/hr to $1/hr.Long term loans were designed to support students during the LLC’s closures related to the pandemic and the SJ closure. Supporting students in the current hybrid model of class delivery is best met by shorter term lending. This will allow multiple students to use the same device daily or weekly and will allow students to attend class or work in another location other than the LLC.  These changes are part of our efforts to ensure equitable access to our resources and improve the reach of our technology programs to as many students as possible. Please also note:Centre for Business students registered in courses that require a laptop to participate in and complete work are eligible for term-length loans as these students may not have received notice in time to ensure that they had an appropriate device for the start of the first term. Please speak with your instructor or program coordinator to determine your eligibility. 
Dell Laptops
Mac Laptops
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.