
Are you looking for leadership experience? Looking to build new skills? Then maybe a part-time position in residence is for you! We have a variety of leadership, employment and volunteer opportunities available both during the academic year and throughout the summer.
This paid position is for strong, student leaders, eager to make a difference in residence. Comprehensive property training begins in mid-August followed by our mandatory Residence Life Conference. Responsibilities include preparation for move in/move out, creating and running community building events, resolution meetings with students, consistent communication with Residence Management and taking safety rounds of the building during the evenings. These folks work late, so the position is best suited for an upper year student who is comfortable balancing a full schedule.    
Made of student of volunteers, this team helps to ensure a successful Residence Life program by actively participating in social and cultural activities in residence. They are the voice of the students, providing advocacy for residence issues, ideas on programming, and have a direct link to Management where they can provide input on residence matters. Any resident is welcome to apply. Information on Residence Council applications will be sent to accepted students over the summer.
Our front desk staff works mornings, afternoons and evenings. Need to sign in a friend, forgot your key card in your room, signing out equipment, or paying residence fees? These are the folks that take care of all those requests. They are the first welcoming face you will see each morning, and the trusting resource that is available all night long. They’ll provide answers to your questions and direct you to resources in and around the college.  
We have a great group of individuals who work to keep our spaces safe, looking great, and running well. They are responsible for daily cleaning and upkeep of all common areas of the residence. Housekeepers clean student rooms and common areas throughout the school year, and Maintenance staff complete work orders they receive online from students while taking care of all mechanical components of the residence. Over the summer we often hire students to help clean and maintain rooms while we offer accommodations to the public.  
For a full listing of current job opportunities, please visit Campus Living Centres web site or keep an eye out for posters at the residence and around the college.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.