
In the School of Fashion and Jewellery, your learning environment is as diverse as the fashion industry itself. 
You will have the opportunity to shape your learning experience and start building the career you want. Studying at the School of Fashion & Jewellery will take you outside the classroom and into design studios, runways, competitions and public events where you can showcase your talent.
“George Brown School of Fashion & Jewellery is one of the top 50 fashion schools in the world.” – Fashionista.com, 2022. 
“George Brown College is your hub of fashion education in Canada” – World Scholarship Forum, 2021
CEOWORLD magazine, 2021, ranks George Brown College at #56, making us #1 college for fashion in Canada!
George Brown College students have an opportunity to participate in a variety competitions showcasing their skills, gaining valuable real-world experience and building their professional network.
THREADS is an annual year-end event showcasing School of Fashion students’ talent. The event celebrates student accomplishments and provides students with an opportunity to connect with the industry.
Our students have had access to unique travel opportunities to Milan, Miami, London, India and South Korea for competitions and learning abroad. 
As part of their education, we provide students with opportunities to gain practical knowledge outside of the classroom and grow their professional network. 
Fashion Exchange is designed to share the growing impact and become a leader in sustainable fashion production. 
Offers students an opportunity to gain real-world fashion industry experience through a dynamic capstone project running two fashion stores within George Brown College – Uptown and Downtown.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.