
Apprenticeships are regulated by the Ministry of Labour, Immigration, Training and Skills Development (MLITSD) as a means of training new workers in skilled trades. Apprenticeship training offers industry specific education by combining on the job and in-school learning experiences.
Other ways to gather information about the trades are through trade magazines and trade unions and associations and by conducting information interviews with people working in a trade.
There are various pathways to becoming an apprentice:
Find more information about the programs:
At George Brown we embrace differences, welcome everyone and are committed to promoting diversity in the trades. In the past we have partnered with the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH), Downtown East Community Development Collective – Regent Park, Miziwe Biik Aboriginal Employment, Georgina Trades Training, St. Stephens House Employment, Toronto Rape Crisis Centre, Nellie’s and Direct Energy to offer support in pre-apprenticeship programs in various trades. Our students have included women who experienced abuse, new immigrants to Canada, residents of marginalized communities, aboriginal peoples, consumer survivors and residents of rural areas. These pre-apprenticeship programs are funded on a one time basis and are not currently available. New opportunities will be posted here when they are announced.
George Brown College has a dedicated Disabilities Services Office at each campus. We provide physical access to people with mobility/functional impairments. As well, we provide accommodations to those with disabilities, mental health concerns, Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, Acquired Brain Injury, medical conditions (such as Epilepsy, HIV, Diabetes, Kidney Disease), and to persons who are deaf, deafened or hard of hearing or who have low vision or blindness.
There are certain skills that are essential for every workplace. These skills, Essential Employability Skills, are critical components of our programs at George Brown College. The following list outlines these skills. Note that at George Brown College the Apprenticeship 'In-school' Training is offered only in the English language.
Finding an employer to hire you can be challenging. Below are a few suggestions to help you secure a job.
Be creative! If you are willing, you will find a way.
Depending on the trade, an apprenticeship takes two to five years to complete. The majority of training occurs on the job while being paid by an employer. During the first year of apprenticeship, apprentices earn a minimum of forty percent of what a journeyperson mentor is paid.
Apprenticeship Application for Admission form 
If you are considering an apprenticeship, we invite you to visit George Brown College in person. By attending one of our information sessions, you can learn about the program, meet the faculty, tour our shops, and get answers to your questions.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.