
WAVE (Wellness, Applied Research and Visionary Education) is a group of clinics where students provide health and wellness services to the public, under the supervision of faculty. As a student at the state-of-the-art Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences at the Waterfront Campus, you have access to technology and environments you will encounter in the workplace giving you highly sought-after skills and preparing you for a career in the health care industry.
To book a service or find out more, visit WAVE. Student rates apply to most services.
In addition to classroom instruction, students at the School of Dental Health work in the George Brown College dental clinic. The school provides a unique opportunity to work alongside practicing dental professionals; students provide direct client care while learning. There are also field placements at clinics and dental offices throughout the Greater Toronto Area, giving students hands-on experience in providing dental services to real patients.
The learning environments associated with the School of Health and Wellness are as diverse as the program choices and offer hands-on learning in real world work settings. For example, students studying orthotics and prosthetics work in a specialized lab environment based out of Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre. Fitness and lifestyle students get the opportunity to work in fitness centres, interacting with clients, teaching classes and conducting assessments. Students in the hearing instruments specialist program conduct hearing assessments in real clinical environments.
Within any modern health services environment, information is critical. Students at the School of Health Services Management have field placements in clinical settings including private practices, hospitals, and agencies. They work with health information specialists on real client records (both electronic and paper), applying their academic learning about privacy and medical terminology in a practical, clinical setting.
The Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing offers certificate, diploma and degree programs that can lead you into teaching, research, health care administration, and even sales. You will study in our state-of-the-art Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences at the Waterfront Campus and will learn the required skills from faculty members who are actively involved in the health care field. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.