
Simply put, counselling is a conversation. A conversation with a professional counsellor allows a person the opportunity to discuss concerns and problems with someone in a safe, private, and friendly environment. Sometimes personal issues may be impacting your ability to focus on your studies and sometimes schoolwork can be impacting your personal life. We are here to help you succeed! Check out What is Counselling? A Search for a Definition for more information. 
Counselling groups are counsellor-facilitated opportunities to connect with other students who are struggling in a safe and supportive environment that can be normalizing, validating and can reduce isolation. Counselling groups help members learn coping strategies faster than in individual therapy and counselling groups can provide useful information/skills that can be applied right away. Groups instil hope, a sense that “If they can make it, so can I.” For more information about our counselling groups, please check out the information below.
All information you tell your counsellor is strictly confidential. This means that the counsellor will not provide anyone with information about you (or even that you came to counselling) to anyone without your written permission. Information about seeking help from Counselling Services does NOT go into the student’s academic record and will NOT be given to parents, employers, or any governments. The only exceptions where others need to be contacted are those rare occasions when:
View our Privacy Policy for more information.
Most issues related to personal and academic concerns.
All currently registered students at George Brown College are eligible to receive counselling services at no cost.
Most sessions can be up to 60 minutes long depending on the issues discussed.
We will do our best to help facilitate access to your special needs. Please indicate on the on-line intake form what accommodations we can provide to allow you to access services. If you need to discuss any accommodation you require to access counselling services please email our office at letstalk@georgebrown.ca, letstalkcl@georgebrown.ca, letstalkwf@georgebrown.ca
To book/cancel an appointment, please use our Student Portal.
If you need assistance with booking an appointment or have any questions you can contact: letstalk@georgebrown.ca, letstalkcl@georgebrown.ca, letstalkwf@georgebrown.ca
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.