
PLEASE NOTE: Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, field education experiences for the 2020/2021 academic year are subject to change without notice. For details regarding field education experiences for your program, please contact your program-specific Field Education Coordinator. 
During your time in-class you'll have the chance to build a foundation of knowledge that will help prepare you for working in the real world.
What have students told us about their learning in the classroom?
After successfully completing pre-requisite courses and providing a clear Vulnerable Sector Police Reference Check, you'll have the opportunity to apply what you've learned in the classroom during a field placement.
Field placements provide a critical piece of your learning because they give you the chance to apply what you've learned in the classroom in a real-world environment. You also get invaluable on-the-job work experience and the opportunity to develop your own professional network with potential employers.
Depending on the program, field placements are secured either by the Field Placement Liaison department or by the student themselves. Regardless of the structure, all students are supported in their placement search.
Please note: Before starting any field experience, students will be required to complete program-specific pre-requisite courses, and in most cases, a clear Vulnerable Sector Police Reference Check. Please check with your program.
Our downtown location provides us with access to a number of community agencies that serve Toronto's diverse population. Students who have studied with us have had field placements with agencies such as:
If you have dreams of studying abroad and meet the necessary requirements, you can apply to do a field placement in an international setting. Students from the School of Social & Community Services have done a field placement in Jamaica and India. Please note that requirements for each project vary and that international placements are not offered every year.
To be eligible, you'll need to:
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.