
As Senior Vice-President, People Enablement and Experience, Leslie Quinlan’s extensive portfolio includes information technology, infrastructure, people and culture, general counsel and the Office of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services. As the senior leader of these divisions, Leslie focuses on providing leadership and direction to integrate these functional areas and optimize the physical and virtual teaching and learning environments for employees and students. She also aims to shape the culture of the college in alignment with George Brown’s Vision 2030, Strategy 2022-2026. 
As the former Vice-President, HR and Public Safety and Security between 2015 and 2021, Leslie oversaw strategic and operational leadership and direction with respect to all aspects of human resources and public safety and security. She continues to lead George Brown’s efforts as a top employer, ensuring and enabling a progressive workplace committed to anti-racism, equity and inclusivity, as well as health and wellness, for our employees, students and community. 
Leslie joined George Brown College after more than two decades of increasingly senior leadership positions in human resources in the financial services industry. Before joining the college, she was Senior Vice-President, HR, Corporate Office and Direct Channels at TD Bank Group. Prior to that, Leslie was Vice-President, Talent Management for the bank and Vice-President, HR for TD Wealth Management.  
Throughout her career, she has been committed to giving back to the community. She was a leader of the George Brown College United Way campaign for two consecutive years, was a member of the United Way Cabinet, a chair of the Juvenile Diabetes Ride Foundation (JDRF) and a representative on the Industry Council for Homeward Bound. 
Leslie holds an Honours Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and French from the University of Western Ontario, and a Postgraduate Certificate in Industrial Relations from the University of Ottawa. She also completed the Advanced Human Resources Executive program at the University of Michigan. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.