
Every month our diverse and dedicated group of counsellors will aim to provide you with helpful tips and topical information related to student well-being and holistic living. We will be covering themes that are relevant, timely and topical to students - like you! We will be discussing a range of topics and have interesting guests from the GBC community, as well as other professionals, contribute their knowledge and expertise in the topics that you may find useful. So look out for our announcements every semester and join us!
You'll find us on Anchor, Spotify, PocketCasts, RadioPublic, Google Podcasts and more!
If you have any questions and feedback on the podcast and future episodes or wish to book an appointment with counsellors, please drop us a line at letstalk@georgebrown.ca.
GBC podcast cover art courtesy: Marisol Escobar

Episode 9 Transcript
Counsellors Genevieve Beaupre and Jeremy Jacob chat with Olivia and Luma about managing during stressful times. Check out Peer Mentor + on Instagram and on YouTube.

Bonus Episode Transcript
Do you need tips for self-care? Continue listening to this bonus episode!


Join Lavlet Forde as she chats with fellow counsellors Pablo Gonzalez, Heidi Mehta, Aarti Dhanda and Constantine Cabarios about starting this brand new podcast and what they hope to offer the GBC community.

Counsellors Aarti Dhanda and Heidi Mehta talk about how Covid-19 might be affecting relationships in different ways.Resources:

Counsellors Constantine and Lavlet chat with some of the amazing professionals at ALS (Accessible Learning Services!

Join Counsellor Heidi Mehta and the Peer Mentor + coaches as they discuss their roles and explore helpful strategies to cope during the Winter break! Check them out on Instagram and on YouTube.

Join Counsellors Aarti Dhanda and Pablo Gonzalez as they explore two sides of the same coin. Feelings of judgement, vulnerability, shame, guilt, and more are covered.

Join counsellor Lavlet Forde as she chats with Black Student Success Network (BSSN) and the Student Association Community Care Centre on how GBC plans to celebrate and honour Black History Month. Check out Black History Month at George Brown College!

Counsellors Aarti Dhanda and Pablo Gonzalez  reflect on grief and loss, one year later after the pandemic.

Counsellor Constantine Cabarios chats with psychotherapist Kat Kova about the general connections between sexuality, relationships and mental health during uncertain times. Contact the Sexual Health Info Line at 1-800-668-2437 or visit sexualhealthontario for helpful information.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.