
By Kizzy Rodney 
In a recent meeting I attended, a senior leader referred to the pursuit of education as “a transformative process for human development.” I immediately asked myself, if we see education as a crucial factor in human development, why are some groups continuously excluded from this life-changing process?
Canada prides itself on being a diverse nation, however diversity is different from equity. Right now, Indigenous populations and those considered to be the first in their family to attend post-secondary education are underrepresented in higher education.
Access to post-secondary education (PSE) remains a case of the haves and the have-nots, as individuals from middle to high-income households with highly educated parents are more likely to attend college or university than individuals from low-income households.
Not only is this unfair, but it also has far-reaching consequences. Research demonstrates a lack of post-secondary education affects one’s human development and can lead to negative effects such as health challenges, and social isolation.
So how do we ensure that anyone who wishes to pursue PSE can do so?
We need to connect with prospective learners where they are, instead of waiting for them to come to us. We must be intentional about reaching out to all pockets of the population, creating sustainable programs and partnerships with community stakeholders and building supportive pathways that address the unique needs and lived experiences of varied communities.
But colleges and universities cannot do this alone. To curb the access gap, we need to invest in partnerships and advocate to our governments for the provision of consistent and sustainable funding for access programs. Creating access should not be administered through special envelope funding; it should be core funding embedded into the day-to-day operations and governance at all Canadian post-secondary institutions.
If we do not curtail this gap, growing Canadian populations will continue to be excluded from opportunities to advance themselves socially and economically in today’s rapidly changing economy. Not only will this impact these individuals, but also our economy as a whole – particularly as Canada faces a shortage of skilled workers due to our aging population and the effects of the pandemic.
It’s time for a culture shift in how we think about access to education. It is not just about changing our recruitment practices or admissions procedures; it is about taking a broad, holistic approach that encompasses all areas of our education system. Imagine the change we could bring about by...
While these solutions are bold and demanding, success can be achieved through intentionality and a holistic mindset in understanding the complexity of individuals, the barriers that exist, and the changing nature of our economy. Let us work together to ensure all people have access to the transformative power of education.
Kizzy Rodney is the Director of External and Community Relations at George Brown College. Kizzy has dedicated most of her professional career to the development of community and industry partnerships to create access to education. With a Masters of Sociology, she has worked as a strategic community collaborator in the GTA for close to 20 years. Kizzy is a mission-driven leader, with proven expertise in developing and executing strategic partnerships that are wholly collaborative in spirit, are mutually satisfying, and most of all, add great value to communities.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.