Phone Line Hours
You can visit a library Help Desk in person during open hours, or submit a support ticket online through GBC Assist.
Text at: 647-931-1830
AskON Hours
During offline hours, please submit your question through Library Help. 
Email the Library
Find Your Liaison Librarian
LLC Orientation Materials
Library Events 

The library is always open, online! We can also be reached by email 24/7.
You can speak to a library representative by telephone at 416-415-5000 x8255 
Wifi hotspots, iPads, and more can be borrowed for up to 7 days, with the possibility of two renewals (subject to availability). Please return all technology equipment to the LLC location you acquired it from.
Changes to LLC Laptop Loan Policy
As of Dec 18, 2023, the LLC laptop loan period returned to 8 hours.
We will have a limited number of devices available for a one-week loan period. Continuing Education students will be eligible to borrow laptops for 8 hour loans. Centre for Business students may be eligible for longer term loans depending on their course registration.
We will also lower the laptop late fee from $5/hr to $1/hr.
Long term loans were designed to support students during the LLC’s closures related to the pandemic and the SJ closure. Supporting students in the current hybrid model of class delivery is best met by shorter term lending. This will allow multiple students to use the same device daily or weekly and will allow students to attend class or work in another location other than the LLC.  
These changes are part of our efforts to ensure equitable access to our resources and improve the reach of our technology programs to as many students as possible. 
Please also note:
Centre for Business students registered in courses that require a laptop to participate in and complete work are eligible for term-length loans as these students may not have received notice in time to ensure that they had an appropriate device for the start of the first term. Please speak with your instructor or program coordinator to determine your eligibility. 

Did you know you can book a VR Lab at the Casa Loma Library? You can play virtual reality games using your own Steam account, or through the library's account. Follow the link below for more information!
Book a VR Lab: https://www.georgebrown.ca/library-learning-commons/services/book-a-vr-lab


The library has a new search and lending system!  We introduced Page 1+, a new searching tool from College Libraries Ontario (CLO). Page 1+ can be accessed from the SEARCH bar on our library homepage.
View our guide on how to use Page 1+ for all of your searching and research needs!
Please note that users will now be prompted to peruse and agree to the Acceptable Use Guidelines for Electronic Resources before accessing resources within the library catalogue.
Instructional videos created by GBC Librarians on how to search for articles, databases, and more! 
Library Research Video Tutorial Guide 