
 
Toronto is one of the most diverse cities in the world and provides students with access to a wealth of social and cultural experiences. After all, a college experience is about finding balance – studying hard, learning technical and people skills while also making new friends and having fun.
Discover Toronto
We have many ways you can get involved with different groups and activities. They provide you with a wide array of services and resources to help you succeed both academically and personally. We pride ourselves on offering a vibrant campus community with activities, clubs, sports and social events.
Campus Activities and Clubs
We ensure you have everything you need in order to focus on your education and succeed. That is why we offer our students multiple housing options that provide you with comfort, functionality and security.  
 
Start and finish each day living in style at the George, our student residence. At your home away from home, you'll be living in downtown Toronto, walking distance to both St. James and Waterfront campuses and a public transit ride away from Casa Loma.
Toronto home rentals, in-home services and so much more.
A variety of housing and affordable rooms for rent around college campuses.
We have three campuses located in the heart of downtown Toronto, surrounding you with potential employers, activities and the excitement of city life. For a closer look at each campus plus additional locations we have throughout the city, feel free to visit our campus webpage.
See our campuses
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.