
Locker registration for the Winter 2024 Term opens December 1, 2023, for students with in-person classes and labs.
George Brown has lockers across its three main campuses for students to store their textbooks, supplies, and personal items when on campus. Lockers are allocated by program so they should be near where your classes are. Log in through STU-VIEW to get started and follow the steps below:
To rent a locker online, follow these steps:
Step 1. Turn RIGHT 3 times, stop at the first number.Step 2. Turn LEFT one full turn passing the first number to stop at the second number.Step 3. Turn RIGHT and stop at the third number.Step 4. Pull Lock.
Locker rental fee is $20.00 for one semester, $40.00 for two consecutive semesters, and $60.00 for three consecutive semesters. The program provides student employment at the three campuses and covers locker upgrades and maintenance.
Locker rentals are accessed through your STU-VIEW account, so if you have a credit card or Visa debit card, so if you have a credit card or Visa debit card, you can pick your locker and pay online. Once you complete your payment online, you must confirm the locker details to complete the rental transaction. You will receive two confirmation emails to your George Brown email account: one for your payment, and one with the details of the locker rental.
If you get to your locker and it has been taken, this likely means that someone has bypassed the system and has taken the locker without paying. When this happens, it causes a lot of confusion and wasted time for students. The first thing to do is notify a locker administrator by emailing us at lockers@georgebrown.ca. Do not cut the lock yourself—we will remove the lock for you and empty the locker. DO NOT put your lock on a locker that is not assigned to you, it will be cut off.
All items removed from a locker will be kept with your campus locker administrator for 10 business days. items will be donated and/or discarded. For retrieval of items removed from a locker, current students must show a registered locker for that term.
If you choose, you may share your locker with a friend—but remember that whoever signs up for the locker is responsible for the locker and the college assumes no responsibility for lost or stolen goods.
If you discover that the locker you have been assigned to is in disrepair, contact the locker administrator as soon as possible. We will have your locker repaired or assign you a new one. Be sure not to wait too long—otherwise, there might not be another locker available for you.
Each program within the college has specific lockers assigned to it, so that students can have lockers on the right campus and near their classes. The locker system is connected to the college database, so it automatically shows you a list of lockers available to you, once you've logged into STU-VIEW.
Can I switch? To avoid this happening, write down a few numbers from the ones STU-VIEW provides you with and walk through the area to see which one you like. Students can email lockers@georgebrown.ca to switch their lockers with proper student identification. The contents of your old locker must be moved into your new one as soon as possible as it will become available immediately to other students.
Once you have been assigned a locker, it is registered to your name. If you want to keep your locker for the following year, all you have to do is log into the locker program in STU-VIEW and renew your locker. For example, you can book a locker for your third semester while you are still in your first semester. Don't wait too long, though, since your locker will be available to other students for rent after your rental term expires.
Before the start of a new semester or academic year, students already renting lockers will have a few weeks to renew their lockers for their following semester. After this window passes, however, all the lockers that have not been renewed will be made available for all students to rent. If you want to be sure to keep your locker, make sure you renew it before the end of your rental term. If it is taken you will have to move your belongings to your new locker as the lock will be cut.
Locker rental registration begins when web registration opens for the coming term. There are a limited number of lockers at the college and groups of lockers are assigned to each program. So if you can't get a locker, it likely means that all of the lockers assigned to your program have already been rented. If this happens, go to the St. James Campus Store, notify a locker administrator and ask if there are any lockers coming available, or if there's a chance for you to get a locker assigned to a different program.
If you decide you don't need your locker you can cancel by visiting the St. James Campus Store. However, if you decide to cancel more than 10 business days after the semester start date, you will not receive a refund.
If someone forcefully enters your locker, it is a criminal act and needs to be reported to Campus Security as soon as possible. The safe recovery of your items depends in large part on how quickly you report the theft. If you are sharing a locker, be sure to let the person you are sharing it with know what has happened.
We advise that you never keep things such as cell phones and wallets in your locker. George Brown College assumes no liability for the loss of any items stored in lockers.
The college reserves the right to access lockers at its sole discretion if there is a suspected security risk or there is an environmental concern such as pest control or odours. Security has the right to enter a locker at anytime should they suspect it contains items that put the college environment in danger. Any criminal activity will be reported to police. The college is required to provide police with access in the event of a criminal investigation.
Please also review the locker policy page.
Locker use unauthorized by the locker program will result in your lock being cut and belongings removed. Please read the Student Locker Rental Policy and Regulations.
**George Brown College is not responsible for lost items from your locker.
Email: lockers@georgebrown.ca
A Locker Administrator is available at St. James Campus Store, 200 King E.
Any other inquiries please refer to the Ask George FAQ page.
For related tips and more information please refer to: Public Safety & Security or the Toronto Police Service.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.