
If you are 19 years or older and do not have an Ontario Secondary School Diploma, you may apply to George Brown as a mature student.
If you do not possess the required credits, you will be invited to take an Admissions Assessment.
*-Does not include S134 Dental Hygiene program. Please see below.
For mature applicants to bachelor's degree programs, you may be considered for admission if you meet all of the following requirements:
For bachelor's degree programs offered in collaboration with Toronto Metropolitan University, mature student status is 21 years of age and you must be out of full-time school for two years.
Please note: If you are under the age of 19 at the start of the program you must have an OSSD or equivalent to be admitted.
All applicants to these programs require an academic credit (as outlined in the admissions requirements) or its equivalent for each of the following areas of the admission requirements:
Mature Student (19 or older and do not have an OSSD) applicants are able to test for the English component of the requirements only, to determine if they meet that requirement.
George Brown College offers a variety of options to upgrade or attain the credits you need to be considered for admission to your program of choice.
Want to learn more? Visit our upgrading page for more information on course upgrading, and other advice on how to start planning your path to George Brown College.
Not sure where to start? George Brown offers you options to explore the possibilities and determine the best approach for you.
Having trouble deciding or need guidance?  Our Entry Advisors provide one-on-one sessions (in-person, by phone, or by email) as well as group sessions to help you navigate educational programs and pathways, providing information on and/or referrals.To meet one-on-one with an advisor or register for a free workshop or information session, please contact Entry Advising by phone at: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2949 or by email: collegeadvisor@georgebrown.ca
If you are considering George Brown College as a Better Jobs Ontario applicant please
Register for a Better Jobs Ontario information session
There are several courses that can help you prepare if you plan to apply for the college.
Register for a continuing education course
For more information on applying as a mature student, please visit our
Guide for Mature Students
Explore the many programs and courses offered through George Brown College Continuing Education.
Visit Continuing Education
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.