
The TLC is open for in-person and online tutoring! Learn how to log in with your GBC credentials. Book now!
Learn about the staff in the Tutoring and Learning Centre (TLC)!
The TLC team brings learning supports to all George Brown College students. The TLC's main focus is on development literacy, numeracy, and learning skills to support course learning throughout all college programs. Read on below to see how the skills and experience of our team further our united goal of making learning accessible for all of our students.
Kasia (she/her) is the Manager of the TLC Services and Assessment Centre Services. She has a Master’s degree in English Language and Literature and a Master’s degree in Leadership in Higher Education. Her extensive experience includes teaching, assessment, and leadership of academic support services. She’s fortunate to work with a great team of TLC Advisors and Peer Tutors to help GBC students along their journey of learning at GBC.
Alana (she/her) is the TLC Advisor at the Casa Loma campus. She has a Master of Education in Language, Culture and Teaching, a Graduate Diploma in Post-Secondary Education: Community, Culture and Policy, and TESL Canada certification. With 15+ years of experience teaching general and academic English in the private language industry, Alana is committed to ensuring students enjoy their studies and achieve their language goals.
Amanda (she/her) is the TLC advisor at the St. James campus. She is OCT Certified (Ontario College of Teachers) and holds a BA in English Language and Literature, a BEd, and a Master’s degree in Education (curriculum and pedagogy). Amanda has nearly a decade of experience in secondary schools across the GTA. Within the public and private sector, Amanda enjoyed a variety of roles such as English Department Head, Student Success Teacher, and Assistant Soccer Coach. Between these roles, Amanda also travelled around Southeast Asia where she volunteered in a Thai school and ran literacy workshops across Singapore.
Linh (she/her) is the TLC Advisor at the St. James Campus. She is a certified teacher with OCT (Ontario College of Teachers) and TESL (Teaching English as a Second Language) Canada. She holds a Bachelor of Science and a Bachelor of Education from the University of Toronto. She has 8+ years of teaching experience in ESL, Science, Math, and Social Studies, where she has worked with students at the high school, college and university level. More recently, Linh has worked in a university research lab, with the recruitment and coordinating of numerous developmental psychology projects. Linh has a passion for working with ESL students and loves learning about different languages and cultures from all around the world!
Matthew (He/Him) is the Accounting Advisor at the St. James Campus. He has an M.A. in Communications & Media, and a TESL Certification. Matthew has previously worked as an Academic Advisor at other post-secondary institutions, in addition to being a Literacy & Basic Skills Coordinator for the Ontario Government. Matthew is also an instructor himself, having taught at other institutions such as McMaster University, Toronto Metropolitan University, Niagara College, and Conestoga College. In his spare time, Matthew enjoys competitive E-Sports, reality TV, and spending time with his dog, Moose.
Michael (he/him) is the TLC Advisor at the Waterfront campus.  He has an M.Ed. in Languages and Literacies Education from OISE, an M.A. in Near and Middle Eastern Civilizations, a Teacher of Adults Certificate, and OCELT Certification from TESL Ontario. Michael has worked as a Research Assistant, a CELBAN Assessor, an Assessment Advisor, a translator, an editor, and has over twenty years of teaching experience. He has taught in China and in Turkey, as well as at Centennial College, Seneca College, George Brown College and York University. In his spare time, he likes reading and studying foreign languages.
Geraldine provides Operations Support for the TLC.
Chelsey (she/her) (on leave) is the Math Advisor at the TLC. She spends her time at all three of our locations. She has a degree in biology, a bachelor of education, and a Master’s of Professional Education in the field of Mathematics Education. Chelsey has been teaching and supporting students for over ten years now and especially enjoys helping students who struggle with mathematics to reach their full potential.
Sharon (she/her) (on leave) is the TLC's Administrative Program Support.  Responsible for administrative work, promotional operations, onboarding, and start-ups. Sharon has her George Brown College diploma in Fitness and Health Management.  She has been working at GBC for over 9 years as a TA in the Fitness and Health promotions Program. Sharon has been working with students for many years and enjoys being part of their academic journey and continues to enjoy working with our students to help achieve their academic goals.
Meighan (on leave) is the TLC Advisor at Casa Loma and Ryerson. She has an Honours Bachelor of Arts degree in English literature from the University of Waterloo, a Master of Arts degree in English literature from the University of Toronto, and is an Ontario Certified English language teacher. In addition, Meighan is also a trained assessor for the CLBPT, and has previously held examiner status for IELTS. Meighan specializes in academic English, and with 9+ years in the education field, has a love for English and helping students achieve their language goals.
Katharine (she/her) (on leave) is the TLC Advisor at Waterfront campus. She holds a B.A. and M.A. in Writing and a PhD in Literature. She has been teaching academic and professional writing, literature, ESL, and research workshops for over ten years. In addition, she has also worked as a Writing Instructor at three writing centres: University of Toronto, York University and the University of New Brunswick. She enjoys helping students better understand the research and academic writing process.
Sergio (he/they) (on leave) is the TLC Math Programming Specialist with a physical desk at Casa Loma. They hold a B.Sc. and M.Sc. in mathematics from Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla and a PhD in mathematics from York University. They have taught mathematics at the high school, college, and university level, and have been tutoring from elementary to university level. They frequently visit different stages of math anxiety (depending on the area and topic of the trigger), but they’re ready to tame their anxiety with every new question they do not know how to answer.
The TLC includes a large team of Peer Tutors, Peer Leaders, and TLC Assistants. They are GBC students and University of Waterloo co-op students who have demonstrated strong academic achievement, with many of them having completed other college or university programs before coming to GBC. Through the completion of the TLC Tutor Training and Development Program, certified as an International Tutor Training Program, TLC Tutors develop and enhance tutoring skills and strategies to effectively support students in reaching their academic goals.  For more information on becoming a tutor, please visit Becoming a TLC Tutor or Peer Leader.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.