
Michael Herrera joined George Brown College in 2019 as Chief Financial Officer. In this role, he provides comprehensive financial leadership and technical expertise relating to the operations of the college. As CFO, he is responsible for college-wide expenditure management and resource allocation, including the management of college funds, financial analysis, reporting and auditing requirements, as well as the creation of a long-term capital plan for the college.  In 2023, Michael took on the additional leadership responsibilities associated with Strategic Planning and Institutional Analysis as Senior Vice-President, Institutional Planning.
Michael has spent a career in service to the not-for-profit sector, having worked with social services, religious, and arts organizations. Prior to joining George Brown College, he spent nearly a decade with United Way Greater Toronto. He also held similar leadership positions at the Anglican Church of Canada, the YMCA of Greater Toronto and the National Ballet of Canada. Prior to these roles, Michael was a manager at EY, and as an independent consultant, he supported arts and heritage organizations through the development and delivery of financial and governance training to a variety of organizations throughout Ontario.
Michael's community involvement includes past governance roles with organizations such as Social Planning Council, Toronto Foundation and Ontario Museums Association. He currently serves on the board of directors for the Toronto Arts Council, Toronto Arts Foundation, and Making The Shift - a Youth Homelessness Social Innovation Lab with a mandate to transform how we respond to youth homelessness through research and knowledge mobilization.
Michael holds a Bachelor of Commerce from the University of Toronto and has been a member of the Chartered Professional Accountants of Ontario since 1996.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.