
As Vice-President, Facilities and Sustainability, Michelle McCollum oversees operations of George Brown College’s Facilities Management department and leads the development and deployment of the sustainability strategy, campus planning and the evolution of the college’s physical footprint. She is responsible for the Waterfront Campus expansion project Limberlost Place, a 10-storey mass-timber facility that will be the first institutional building of its kind in Ontario. 
A highly skilled public sector leader and social responsibility advocate, Michelle brings to the college more than three decades of experience in municipal government and education administration in both the United Kingdom and Canada leading capital projects, Public Private Partnerships and managing large real estate portfolios. 
After spending over 15 years in municipal government in the UK, Michelle moved to Canada with her family in 2008 and joined the City of Brampton, where she spent nearly a decade leading new construction projects, spearheaded the development and implementation of the city’s strategic plan, and drove organizational transformation. 
Prior to her work at George Brown, Michelle was Associate Vice-President, Facilities and Sustainable Infrastructure at Sheridan College, where she led all aspects of Sheridan’s built environment, including sustainability, land-use, infrastructure planning, asset management, design and construction, and facilities operations. She also oversaw the development of Sheridan’s campus master plan, space management plan and asset management framework. 
Michelle holds a Bachelor of Science in Quantity Surveying from Napier University in Edinburgh, an MBA from Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh, is a Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and holds a PRINCE2 Project Management Certification. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.