
Mindfulness is about being present in our lives, with an open mind and non-judgementally.
Mindfulness practice can have many benefits, including reducing stress, improving focus and wellbeing.
On this page, you will find Guided Mindfulness Meditation recordings. Please find the “Meditation Videos Safety Tips” below.
We hope you find something that inspires you and that you enjoy!
Each person has unique needs. Some practices may be a better fit than others and some may not be a good fit at all. We invite you to participate as much or as little as you want and to make changes that suit your needs.
For example, for all video recordings, you can open the eyes, stretch, shift attention to another area of the body, change the words, just watch, or discontinue the practice at any time. For movement meditations, you can also modify the movements and go at your own pace.
As with any awareness practice, when we are present with breathing and with our bodies, one can become more aware of what is here. This can include becoming more aware of emotions, thoughts, urges, or memories. If at any point practicing feels overwhelming to you, you can simply open your eyes, stretch, and discontinue the practice at any time. Different ways to practice or different practices may also be a better fit.
If you have questions or would like support, you can talk with a GBC counsellor. To request a meeting with a counsellor, you can write to letstalk@georgebrown.ca. There are also off-campus and urgent resources.
Are you enjoying our videos? Why not try taking part in one of our live meditation practices? Fill out the form below to get started!
Join counsellor Nadia Stolpner as she explores ways to reduce stress using simple breathing and other day-to-day mindfulness practices.
Join counsellor Heidi Mehta as she introduces us to mindful walking and practicing awareness during busy times.
Join counsellor Nadia Stolpner as she shares simple meditation practices of body and breath awareness to feel more relaxed and present.
Join counsellor Nadia Stolpner in a fun movement practice to be kinder to our bodies and to ourselves. If you have any questions, need more information or wish to speak with a counsellor, please email letstalk@georgebrown.ca.
Join counsellor Nadia Stolpner as she shares a simple meditation to experience more calm inside and to connect with our own greatness. If you have any questions, need more information or wish to book an appointment with a counsellor, please email letstalk@georgebrown.ca.
In this video, viewers are introduced to the origins of mindfulness, the practice, and some of the benefits from regularly engaging with mindfulness practices, including rewiring the brain.
In this video, viewers are guided through a mindfulness practice using the breath as an anchor to the present moment.
Meditation doesn’t need to be practiced sitting still. In this video, viewers are guided through a beginner’s mindful movement practice.
In this video, viewers are guided to pay attention to sensations in the body without judgment. This practice is appropriate for beginners and a favourite of long-term mindfulness practitioners.
If you have any questions and need more information, please email letstalk@georgebrown.ca. You can also book a counselling appointment.
We want to hear from you! Please let us know about the kind of topics you would like us to cover in our future videos.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.