
When a new semester begins, it can be a whirlwind of activity. New classes, new professors, new software and even assignments. It may take you a few days to get into the swing of things, but remember you're not doing this alone, we've got you. Go through each section on this page and get an idea of things you should consider as you start a new term.
Find out what textbooks you need in your courses. Unless your faculty has shared your required booklist in advance, wait until the first day of your class to find out what textbooks you will need. As part of your tuition, some programs have included eText so make sure you investigate. 
Search by Title, Course, or your Course List and pay attention to the listings as some books are eText while others are hard copies. eText can be downloaded right away once you have completed your transaction.
Find more great items at the Campus Stores like equipment, uniforms, computers and tablets, and GBC swag to show off your school spirit!
Visit the Campus Stores website
Once you’ve registered for your classes you should have a good idea of what your class schedule will look like for
the semester. Easily view your schedule through StuView and the GBC app at any time, classes will be listed under each day of the week for you to easily follow the schedule. 
But pay attention! Class schedules can change in the first few weeks of classes to accommodate for space, class size, and availability. Make sure to connect with your faculty if you have conflicts with your schedule, need to add/drop a course, or make any other accommodations like special timetables. Connect with the General Education and Liberal Studies team for questions around your electives. 
Everyone's schedule may be different so it is important that you can read your timetable. Take a quick look at how to read a student's timetable.
Each term there are deadlines, and other important dates you should be aware of. These include the Awards & Scholarships deadlines, dates to opt in/out of your health benefits (if applicable), and those around your courses like add/drop deadlines.
If you’re a new student, you can download these to your personal calendar through your Online Orientation. Access this by visiting the Online Orientation modules.
Visit the Important Dates webpage
As a George Brown student, you have access to a lot of resources and software to help you be successful. You don't need to go searching for - and bookmarking - all the web pages, apps and technical supports available to you at the college. We have put all of them in one, easy to find, spot for you!
Learn how to access your Zoom classes through Brightspace and many other tips to help you be successful online with our Online Learning site.
Microsoft Teams is part of Office365 and you get this for free as a full-time student at the college. Use Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and Teams for meetings with your classmates and faculty. As a GBC student, you also get 1 terabyte of cloud storage for all of your assignments and work!
 If you want to learn how to use Office 365 to its fullest, you can find free online training at LinkedIn Learning. George Brown students and staff also have free access to this video tutorial site.
Be sure to try out AppsAnywhere, it's another FREE service that allows George Brown students, staff and faculty to access software, on-demand, anytime, from anywhere. This will require a one time download to your device to be able to access software.
You can click and download all important college apps and set up your accounts for different platforms that are FREE to use while you're a student at the college. Simply click on the image below for more details.Visit the GBC Downloads page
Whether you're getting to know your classmates or building friendships outside of the classroom, there’s always something exciting happening in downtown Toronto, our campuses, and student residence. 
There are many ways to get involved with GBC, even while studying predominantly online. You can join a Student-Led Club or Network, become a part of Student Government, virtually connect with Athletics & Recreation and Student Life volunteer program, or participate in George Brown's Black Student Success Network. There’s something for everyone.
Athletics & Recreation
Student Association
Clubs & Networks
Student VOLUNTEER SQUAD
Stay connected with us through our main GBC social accounts. Our social media channels are the best way for you to stay up to date on events, announcements, and contests. And make sure you use #MyGBC when you post things so we can see what you're up to!
Each week you will also get an update on important dates and events happening at the college. Keep an eye on your GBC email and notifications in your Brightspace.
Visit the Social Media Hub
FOLLOW ORIENTATION ON INSTAGRAM
The Contact Centre specializes in information about:
Monday-Thursday: 8:00am - 5:00pmFridays: 8:00am - 4:00pm
Tel: 416-415-2000
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.