
Opened in September of 2013, the centre is located on the lower level of the new Nelson Mandela Park Public School at 440 Shuter Street (east of Parliament Street). The centre is licensed for infants, toddlers and preschoolers, including a Before-and-After School Program for Full Day Kindergarten children. This centre is operated by George Brown College and serves as a training Lab School for students from the Early Childhood Education programs at the College while providing care for the children and families in the Regent Park area.
Our centre serves as a model lab school for the diploma and degree programs in the School of Early Childhood, and provides a training ground where college students are supported in developing their skills in working with children and families as they complete the hands on component of their academic program.
Manager: Raizell Slobodsky, RECEEmail: rslobods@georgebrown.ca
Centre Phone Number: 416-415-2450Address: 440 Shuter Street, Toronto ON, M5A 1X6Age groups accommodated: 6 weeks to 10 yearsHours of operation:  8 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.Food: Catered by Wholesome Kids
The Childcare centres in the School of Early childhood have applied for and have been approved for the CWELCC program.
All of our lab schools will follow the guidelines from Toronto Children’s Services in the implementation of the CWELCC plan. As such, the fees are inclusive of all of our services. Therefore, we do not charge any additional fees for extracurricular activities or transportation, etc.
Children under the age of 6 are eligible for the fee reduction.
To join our waitlist, please complete this form. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.