
With a new year comes fresh starts and new beginnings. 
We put a call out to the GBC community on Instagram, asking about your goals for 2024 and what you plan to do differently, improve on, or something new you want to try. Here's what you told us: 
It's easy to make resolutions but keeping them up for the rest of the year is hard. So, whether you've promised to improve your grades, get healthy or find a job, we provide resources to help you reach your goals. 
Need help with your coursework? We've got your back.  
TLC's focus is on helping students develop their English and math skills. TLC offers one-on-one tutoring as well as workshops. 
Tip! Find study buddies. 
Start a study group with people in your program. This allows you to share notes and ideas with classmates and explain concepts to each other. It's also a great way to prepare for tests and exams.  
Want to broaden your circle of friends and get involved in the George Brown community? 
Attend orientation events happening January 4 onward — they're open to new and returning students. It's a great way to meet new people and learn more about life at GBC. 
New students, you can register for your academic program orientation sessions to find out what to expect this semester and meet your classmates and instructors. 
Join the BSSN community to meet, share, socialize and learn from Black community members and allies. 
Find BSSN on Instagram @bssn_gbc. 
Join one of the clubs at George Brown or start your own. 
Meet new people and participate in events and activities that promote your mental health and well-being. Check out what Peer Mentor+ has to offer. 
College life can leave you tight for cash, but there are resources to help you cover the cost of your education.  
George Brown offers hundreds of scholarships, bursaries, and awards. It takes about 30-40 minutes to fill out the online application, and it could pay off. The deadline to apply for winter-semester awards in February 7, 2024.
Make a budget and stick to it. Check out these student budget tips and sign up for a free Financial Literacy Workshop. 
George Brown participates in the HigherEd Points program. Ask friends and family to donate their Aeroplan points to help you pay for your education. 
Visit GBCareers to find out about positions available with the college or off-campus. You can also connect with Career Services advisors who can help with resumes and interview skills. It's also a good idea to start thinking about a summer job and/or your work placement. 
Incorporating exercise into your schedule can be tricky when juggling school and other commitments. Luckily, there are resources at George Brown that can make sneaking in a workout session easier. 
Check out the on-demand fitness classes. 
Learn about athletics and fitness activities at GBC. 
Trying to quit smoking cigarettes or vaping? There are plenty of resources to help you butt out for good.  
Check out the Smokers Helpline site. Support comes in many forms. You can try the online program, call the hotline at 1-877-513-5333, or sign up to get text messages. 
And check out these tips to quit smoking from the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH).
The Student Association's Student Nutrition Access Program, or SNAP, offers excellent resources. And if you can't afford to buy healthy foods, they also provide support.  
And be sure to stop by the GoodFood Market on Thursdays from 10:30 a.m. - 3 p.m. at 200 King St. E., beside the Campus Store.
All full-time students have free access to LinkedIn Learning, which has thousands of online courses on various topics. So, take advantage of the service to learn something new. And be sure to update your Experience Record with any new skills you've picked up or work experience you have gained. 
Juggling school and work can be stressful. Try and schedule time for study, fitness, and entertainment. A little fun and a lot of balance will help you feel energized and less stressed, and you'll be less likely to procrastinate.  
George Brown College Mindfulness and meditation videos 
And Peer Mentor+ provides on and off-campus support for students. The initiative promotes a culture of community and mutual support for well-being at George Brown College. 
George Brown offers virtual work-integrated learning opportunities across Canada and around the world. These placements could be an excellent opportunity to gain experience and pad your resume. 
We participate in the Riipen Level Up program, which pairs students with employers for paid projects. And learn about international work and study opportunities.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.