
The Occupation-specific Language Training (OSLT) Program at George Brown College helps prepare newcomers for the workplace by focusing on the language and communication expectations of specific occupations in Canada. Many newcomers have considerable background and experience from their home country but have not worked in their field in Canada. OSLT builds cultural awareness to support communication in a professional Canadian work environment. Learning materials and activities reflect common workplace-based situations. The college's instructors are experienced in teaching ESL to adults and draw upon the participants' knowledge and experience of the subject matter. George Brown College, located in the heart of downtown Toronto, Canada's largest city, offers newcomers the resources and the network to succeed in the Canadian job market.
Request Info about OSLT
Participants will develop the language and communication skills needed to:
Depending on the sector, OSLT courses may include the following:
Participants learn about the resources they can use to identify the general requirements, qualifications and processes for working in their field in Ontario. Participants gain insight into Canadian workplace culture and practice introducing themselves professionally.
Participants practice asking questions clearly and appropriately to obtain information as well as develop skills needed to share and present information accurately.
Participants practice using technology to communicate, including by telephone, email and other Internet-based communication media.
Participants practice strategies for managing interactions including formal and informal interactions, strategies for negotiating workplace issues, managing situations that require assertiveness or conflict resolution.
Participants prepare for employment searches, including asking for references and researching networking opportunities. Participants also practice decoding job ads, presenting their accomplishments and practice their in-person and telephone interview skills.
Download the OSLT Guide for an overview of courses.
Participants must be permanent residents, protected persons (convention refugees) or CUAET status and have:
*Inter-professional Health Care Teams and Professional Managers courses require CLB levels 7-8.
Module 1: Accessing the Construction Trades Job Market in Ontario (Feb 7 – Mar 13, 2024)
Module 3: Managing Health Care Interactions (To Be Determined)
To be considered, please submit the following documents by email to: oslt@georgebrown.ca
To book a CLB assessment, please contact the YMCA Language Assessment and Referral Services: Language Assessment and Referral Services | YMCA GTA
George Brown CollegeSchool of ESL & Immigrant Education341 King St. E, 3rd Floor, Room 317
Toronto ON M5A 1L1Email: oslt@georgebrown.caPhone: 416-415-5000 ext. 6980
Education & Training
Regulatory Bodies/Network & Associations
Business
Health
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.