
The Office of the Registrar provides academic and student support services from the moment of application through to convocation.
Our services include admissions, registration, scheduling, financial assistance and OSAP, scholarships and bursaries, credential and program planning via CAPP, and academic and personal records
Requests and changes can be made online for the following:
Learn how to access your grades, transcripts, replacement credentials, Honours Degree credential requests and the preferred name change process.
Discover our detailed guide to our students' most frequently asked questions about college services and policies.
We have resources available to help you pay for your college education, and we encourage you to visit the Financial Assistance Office on your campus for more information.
Find out everything you need to know about graduating and your Convocation ceremony. We look forward to celebrating your achievements with you!
See a full listing of all important dates for the upcoming year, including term dates, deadlines and holidays.
Discover the process for registering for courses, find out how to request confirmation of enrolment, education verification, RESP forms, and learn more about the withdrawal and refund policy.
Get instructions on viewing and printing your tax receipts and visit the FAQ.
Contact the Office of the Registrar with your questions. Remember to include your George Brown Student ID number.
Find information on the Office of the Registrar policies such as Admissions, Awards and Financial Aid, Exemptions and Transfer Credits, Grading System, Prior Learning Assessment and Recognition (PLAR), Transcripts, and many more.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.