
George Brown College acknowledges the systemic racism Black, Indigenous and other racialized people face. The journey ahead involves listening to hard conversations, self-reflecting on our own biases and complicity, and creating real change within the community.
Office of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services (OAREHRS) promotes fairness, equity, accountability and transparency at George Brown College. Our ofﬁce manages human rights complaints, advises and raises awareness on diversity and inclusion. The OAREHRS team is responsible for matters that fall under the following GBC policies, and the relevant legislations that govern those policies: Human Rights Discrimination and Harassment Policy; Sexual Assault and Sexual Violence Policy and Protocol; AODA Accessibility Policy; and Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act.
Please contact diversity@georgebrown.ca or 416-415-5000 Ext. 3668 for further inquiries. All of our services are confidential.
Check out our Diversity Calendar for upcoming cultural observances. Or use the print-only version for a physical copy.
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
The Office of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services (OAREHRS) is distressed and deeply saddened to hear about the stabbing incident at the University of Waterloo on Wednesday, June 28, 2023. We particularly condemn this incident of gender-based and transphobic violence, targeting a Gender Issues course within the Philosophy Department and Gender and Social Justice Program.
Hatred and hate-motivated violence must not be tolerated and has no place in our classrooms, schools, or communities.
Read the full statement.
 
Learn how we’re working to end racism in our community with our anti-racism policy, anti-Black racism resources and training and more.
The Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA) became law in 2005. See how we achieve our obligations under the act through our policies and training.
Find out more about our campaigns, resources and how our Human Rights Advisors can help you.
Here you’ll get information about how to disclose and report sexual violence, our policy, emergency contacts and how we can support you.
Learn more about how George Brown supports all Two-Spirit, Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex and Asexual (2SLGBTQIA+) members of our community.
Collecting race-based data is an essential first step toward equity and inclusion so that we know who is here and who isn't. It will allow us to discover barriers and create solutions for students within the GBC Community.
See how we’re following regulations regarding matters related to information access and protection of privacy and learn how to complete a freedom of information request.
Check out our freedom of expression policy which applies to college faculty, students, employees and visitors.
Do you have questions? Have a look at our FAQ or contact us at diversity@georgebrown.ca or 416-415-5000 Ext. 3668, TTY: 1-877-515-5559.
Casa Loma Campus: 160 Kendal Ave., Room C221
St. James Campus: 200 King St. E., Room 264D
Waterfront Campus: 51 Dockside Dr., Room 230
Acknowledgement of Traditional Land: We would like to acknowledge that George Brown College is located on the traditional territory of the Mississaugas of New Credit and the land of other Indigenous Peoples that lived here over time.
As AVP of the Office of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services (OAREHRS), Jennifer Grant oversees George Brown College’s anti-racism efforts and human rights and sexual violence prevention and support initiatives. She also ensures the college continues to meet its obligations under the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA) and privacy protection laws.
An equity champion and advocate with a deep commitment to community building and anti-racist and anti-oppressive practices, she has led several broad-based initiatives to advance this work in not-for-profit and governmental environments.
An alumna of the Child and Youth Care program at the School of Social and Community Services at George Brown, Jennifer taught and mentored students in the same program for 14 years before becoming the OAREHRS Director. She worked within the areas of youth justice, children’s mental health and child advocacy while teaching, bringing real-world perspectives to the classroom.
Jennifer worked as a child and youth worker and social service caseworker at non-profit organizations before moving into management. Her role as Manager, Program Development and Implementation with Central Toronto Youth Services, and Manager, Advocacy Services with the Provincial Advocate for Children and Youth provided opportunities to build her capacity in leadership and organizational change.
Jennifer gained meaningful experiences through her private practice, providing coaching, mentoring, training and consulting to community organizations, their leadership teams and boards in anti-oppressive and anti-racist change.
A dedicated and lifelong learner, Jennifer earned a diploma in Child and Youth Work from George Brown College, a Bachelor of Arts degree in Psychology from McMaster University and a Master of Education in Adult Education and Community Development from the University of Toronto (OISE).
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.