George Brown College prepares innovative, adaptable graduates with the skills to thrive in a rapidly changing job market. George Brown offers 172 full-time programs and 180 continuing education certificates/designations across a wide variety of professions to more than 31,000 full-time students, including 30 percent international students, and receives more than 64,500 continuing education registrations annually. Students can earn certificates, diplomas, graduate certificates, apprenticeships, and degrees.
Study at your own pace and and at your own place.
‘I registered into the Robotics Technician program as I wanted to expand my knowledge of robotics and their real-life applications. The curriculums’ practical examples and Robologix simulation software made the learning more enjoyable.’
'By completing the program, my knowledge of robotics has expanded and I am now better prepared to teach my students. I believe I can help open up more opportunities for my students (as well as myself) and get them ready for their careers.’
Dimitar Zahariev needed to expand his knowledge in the Automation and PLC fields so he chose the George Brown College Certificate programs. Dimitar felt, “They were particularly valuable as they allowed me to study online and on my own pace.”
Since completing the programs Dimitar has “secured a position with more responsibility, within the Ferrara Candy, as a Control Engineer.’
Anil Mathew is a Developmental Electrical Designer at Price Industries, where he is responsible for design and drawings of electrical HVAC units. Anil selected the PLC program at George Brown College for ‘career development. It has definitely increased my confidence to program PLC controllers.’
‘The support team was really helpful and supportive any time I called in for assistance. Overall, I was very happy with the experience.’
Tweets by gbctechtraining 
Phone toll free 1-888-553-5333
Support Center Hours
Monday to Friday, 9am - 10pm (EST)
Sat. & Sun. from 9am - 5pm (EST)
George Brown College



