
Choosing a college can be hard and getting the information you need is important. We are available online to provide you the information that will get you to George Brown.
Let our recruiters walk you through campus from the comfort of your own home, answering your questions in real-time as they take you on a tour.  See what's available at each of our campuses including our facilities, labs and learning technologies and discover what life is like as a George Brown student!
Online tour Q&A sessions happen daily, and you can also watch pre-recorded online tours anytime.
The Campus Tour page has more details on the tour that's right for you.
If you're looking for more information about specific programs, an online information session is a great place to start.  Online information sessions are a chance to get more detailed information about programs and have your questions answered by faculty and staff.  Not all programs have online sessions scheduled yet, but we will add them as they become available.
Here are the scheduled online program info sessions:
Join us for an upcoming information session to learn more about our programs, campuses and services available to students presented by our international recruitment representatives. Select your info session by language and make sure to register.
Check out some sessions we've held in the past. There's lots of good information for you here.
This 30-minute webinar will lead a step-by-step walk-through of the ontariocolleges.ca application process, taking note of key dates and covering frequently asked questions.
REGISTER NOW
This 45-minute webinar will detail the costs of post-secondary education and options for financial aid that are available to students – including scholarships, awards and bursaries. A walk-through of the Ontario Student Application Services (OSAP) application process is included.
REGISTER NOW
This 30-minute webinar will cover everything you need to know about George Brown College – including campus locations, full-time programs, domestic admission requirements and student support and services.
Register Now
Certificates, diplomas, advanced diplomas, degrees…there are so many program types to choose from at college. Which one is right for you?
This 45-minute webinar will provide an overview of the programs that Ontario Colleges offer as well as the many pathways available for students to ‘stack credentials’ to achieve their academic and career goals.
Register Now
Returning to school as an adult can be intimidating as well as exciting. This 30-minute webinar will provide tips on how to research careers and college programs, meeting admission requirements as well as the college application process.
Register Now
This 30-minute webinar will provide a brief overview of careers in skilled trades, the apprenticeship model, sample training timeline, and tips on how to find a sponsor or pre-apprenticeship training.
Register Now
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.