
Welcome to Online Learning at George Brown College.
In this microsite we'll provide you with the tools and resources you'll need to be a successful online learner.
In this first module, you'll learn about the online platforms (and their technical requirements) you'll use for your studies. We'll also give you some tips about online etiquette and what academic integrity is at the college.
After completing this module, you'll be able to:
In this module, we will go through Brightspace.
Brightspace is the online learning environment and Learning Management System (LMS) used at George Brown.
We have put together all the essential things you need to know in order to use it successfully. So on the first day of classes, all you need to think about is whether your laptop is fully charged or not!
After completing this module, you will be able to:
Module 3 is all about giving you the tools you need to be successful in your studies. We’ll share the effective ways to communicate with your instructors and classmates. We’ll also give you tips on how to prepare for online exams, online presentation and even online team assignments. Sorry, just because you are doing an online semester, it doesn't mean team assignments are going to stop!
After completing this module, you will be able to:
This module is all about you. Yes, YOU!
So far, we have covered all of the academic things you need to know to be a successful online learner. In this module, we give you personal tips to set you up for success. We will give you some time management tips, teach you how to set up a SMART goal, help you with stress management and even how to keep yourself motivated through the whole semester.
After completing this module, you will be able to:
We recognize that in the last four modules we have covered a lot of information. This microsite will remain open to you, so you can come back to it as many time as you need.
But we also made this Resource Hub module where we added all the links, How To's, contact information, apps and forms in one place. This way, you can get to what you need faster.
After completing this module, you will be able to:
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.