
From the day you accept your offer to the day you graduate the Student Life team provides orientation and transition programming to support you on your journey!
Whether you’re studying online or in-person, take these opportunities to meet your faculty, connect with other students, get important information about services and supports at the college to guide your success, and learn about all the awesome ways to get involved to make your experience an enriching one.
There are many parts to orientation and what is relevant to each student and their needs varies. Pay attention to communications sent to you from the college, your academic area, or any specific student group you may be a part of. It's worth paying attention as these will increase your chances of success and offer you additional supports.
We've put together five pages to help you navigate your journey at the college. Each page has content and tasks around that part of your orientation experience and your time as a student.
Select the tab below to find out a bit more.
We've curated a list of key resources and provided a handy checklist of things you should do before you start to make sure you're prepared for your first day at the college.
Get tips on navigating resources, software, and exploring our Online Orientation and Online Learning sites.
Let’s get started
This is your opportunity to meet with staff and faculty from your specific program. Find out key information, what to expect, and how to connect. Some program orientations are mandatory for certain programs, and you will be notified if this is the case with yours.
Visit Academic Orientation
Join a workshop, info session, or connect with other students to have some fun. Orientation and transition programming happens before each semester starts, and continues into term to ensure you know what's going on, how you can access services and supports, and to ensure you are in the best position for success, no matter what term you're in.
Visit the orientation calendar
Starting your academic journey can be stressful and overwhelming at times, so we've curated a list of things you should do to get you off to a great start.
Get started now
As you continue through your program and semesters, your needs will change too. Here you will find supports like workshops and coaching to maximize your efforts and help you fine tune your skill set.
View Transition Support
After you've accepted your offer you will receive your invoice where you will find your student ID and temporary password. You will use these credentials to access services, software and supports at George Brown. Log into the college's Identity management system to reset your password to something that you will remember.
 
StuView is George Brown's student portal. This is where you'll pay your fees, register for your classes, view class cancellations, and more.  Brightspace is where you'll find class announcements, content, and links for your virtual classes. Make sure you can access this platform before your orientation and classes begin.
Web registration dates are posted on StuView, and you can see when you can start to register for your courses for the coming term. This is usually about 4–5 weeks before the term begins.
Once registered, you can view your weekly timetable on StuView, and the GBC app. Courses appear in Brightspace on the first day of class.
 
Set up your GBC email as soon as you have access to it. Add in your name, student ID, and program name to your signature! All communications to staff and faculty will be sent through your GBC email, and this helps them identify you easily.
 
While your education can be expensive, it shouldn't be a barrier to you achieving your goals and getting a top-quality learning experience. Explore what options are available to you. through OSAP, Awards and Scholarships. 
The Ontario Student Assistance Program (OSAP) is a financial aid program that offers funding for post-secondary education in two forms, Grants and Loans. Funding is available for both full-time and part-time post-secondary students enrolled in an OSAP-eligible program, and is based on a number of factors.
 
Find out about how to apply for the many awards, scholarships, and bursaries that are available for full-time registered students who demonstrate excellence or are in financial need.
All you have to do is apply!
Wondering how to pay for college?
Sign up for one of these info packed webinars that talk about the costs of learning and the types of financial aid available that you can access.
Useful resources will be shared, and you have an opportunity to ask questions!
 
Friends and family can play a critical role in the success of a George Brown Student. Navigate through these pages or join us for a scheduled information session that provides an opportunity for those individuals who are important in the lives of our students to learn more about supporting their transition to George Brown College.
REGISTER TO ATTEND AN INFORMATION SESSION
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.