
If you are starting college in September 2022 (January 2023, or May 2023), applications for OSAP are now open. 
Find out how to apply for OSAP . You are encouraged to apply for OSAP early to ensure that there is ample time to process your application. In the event of any questions or errors regarding your application, applying early gives you time to resolve them. The sooner you have your assessment, the easier it will be for you to budget for the year. Please make sure you provide your correct Student Number on your OSAP application form.
You can visit the OSAP Aid Estimator to find out how much OSAP you may be eligible for. This estimate is subject to change upon processing of your complete application.
The initial deposit is a minimum requirement for you to register, confirming your attendance to your program and to create your timetable. It is the student's responsibility to cover this deposit, as they must be registered in order to receive OSAP funding. This initial deposit requirement is not waived for students who have applied for OSAP.
Your OSAP assessment may be eligible for a review of your funding in some situations. This may include when you:
Please contact the Financial Assistance office for further information. They'll let you know if you should consider requesting a review.
The deadline for applying for OSAP is 60 days before the end of a student's study period during any given academic year. For example, if your study period ends on April 21, the last day to apply for OSAP is February 17, however, it is recommended that you apply as early as you can. The sooner you apply, the sooner you can ensure that there is ample time to process your application, receive your funding assessment and know how much OSAP funding you will receive.
Once you have applied for OSAP, you can log into your account at any time to check the status of your application. In addition to your account, there is a lot of helpful information on the OSAP website .
If you still have questions or you need additional help with OSAP, please contact George Brown's Financial Assistance Office. They can be reached via email at FinAid@georgebrown.ca. Throughout the year, if there are any changes to your personal, financial or academic situation, you must report these changes to the Financial Assistance Office as soon as possible.
OSAP funding can be composed of several types of funding (Federal and/or Provincial). These are deposited separately, sometimes at separate times.
As long as you are registered full-time, your funding will be automatically released at the beginning of your study period. Keep in mind this may take up to 10 business days for processing.
If you're assessed for both grants and loan funding, but don't want the loan, you can decline it. Just select the No Loan Option that appears on your OSAP application funding summary.
Students may not be eligible for OSAP funding if they:
If OSAP doesn't cover all of the expenses related to your post-secondary education, we recommend that you apply for student awards, scholarships and bursaries through George Brown College via Stu-View. Visit our webpage for further details on types of awards and deadlines to apply at Awards and Scholarships.
Key words can be helpful in searching for your program name. If you're not able to find your exact program name or semester, select the closest program and this will be corrected automatically by the Financial Assistance office. Please make sure you provide your correct Student Number on your OSAP application form.
Returning users can obtain a new password by visiting the financial assistance office at any public college or university. You'll need to bring your government-issued photo ID and social insurance number (SIN) card.If you don't have a SIN card, you can provide proof of your SIN in the following ways:
There are a number of reasons why you may not have received your funding yet. It is likely that one of the situations below applies to you:
Based on your OSAP status, you may be required to provide parental/spousal income information, and your application will be assessed based on this income information. Once your parent(s)/spouse file their income tax return(s) with the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA), and the information is verified by OSAP, your OSAP funding will be reassessed. If they do not file a tax return with CRA (e.g. they have foreign income), additional documentation may be required to prove their income. For further information, check your status online.
The first six months after you graduate, finish your studies, or stop being a full-time student is called your six-month grace period.
You start to repay your loan at the end of the seventh month after you leave school. If your family income is low, you can apply to make reduced monthly loan payments, or no monthly payments at all through the Repayment Assistance Plan.
To learn more about loan repayment visit the National Student Loan Service Centre for more information.
View an on-demand NSLSC orientation webinarView an on-demand NSLSC repayment webinar
If you're not currently receiving OSAP, but are repaying a previous OSAP loan, and continuing in full-time studies, you will need to complete an online CIFS application, by logging into your OSAP account.
You can submit your online application as early as 15 days prior to the study period start date.
The deadline to submit is 21 days before the study period end date. You must maintain a minimum full-time course load per term of 60 per cent or more, and 40 per cent for students with permanent disabilities.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.