
The Ontario Student Assistance Program (OSAP) is a financial aid program that offers funding for post-secondary education in two forms:
When you apply for OSAP, you're automatically considered for both grants and loans, but if you don't want to take a loan, you can decline it after your application is approved.
Apply for OSAP OSAP Aid Estimator
Part-Time OSAP
We've put together a video to help you understand how to apply for OSAP. We've also included step-by-step instructions below. If you still need some help, that's not a problem. Contact the Financial Aid Office at FinAid@georgebrown.ca. Don't forget to use your GBC email so the team can easily verify your identity.
You'll need your social insurance number to register for your OSAP Access Number (OAN). You'll need an OAN to log in if you're a returning user.Apply for OSAP as early as possible to allow enough time for processing your application and supporting documents. You must submit an OSAP application for every school year that you want to receive funding.
If you're not sure about which school you'll be attending, you need to submit an OSAP application for each school you've applied to.
The application typically takes less than 30 minutes. Remember that you can start your application and come back to it if you need more time.
For part-time students with study periods of 21 weeks or more and for all full-time students, submit your OSAP application no later than 60 days before the end of your study period.
For part-time students with study periods of 20 weeks or less, submit your OSAP application no later than 40 days before the end of your study period.
Returning users can obtain a new password by visiting the financial assistance office at any public college or university. You'll need to bring your government-issued photo ID and social insurance number (SIN) card.
If you don't have a SIN card, you can provide proof of your SIN in the following ways:
Required documentation will be listed once you have completed your online OSAP application.
Submit the following required documentation (based on your application) to the Financial Assistance Office at George Brown College (via the document upload link provided on the OSAP application):
Documentation Deadline: Any required documentation must be submitted no later than 40 days before the end of your study period.
The MSFAA outlines the terms of accepting and repaying your student loans.
For students who must provide a Master Student Financial Aid Agreement (MSFAA), the "Required Documents" page will display the following information:
The MSFAA must be completed and submitted electronically.
You can log on to the OSAP website to check the status of your application. Once all documentation has been processed your funding assessment will appear in your account.
Average timelines for document processing are typically 4-6 weeks, but this may vary during peak periods (August/September and December/January).
Please note: should changes in your status (personal, financial, academic) occur, this could impact the amount you are assessed for. Please contact the Financial Assistance Office at George Brown should your status change
If your OSAP application is complete and assessed to receive funding, OSAP will ask George Brown's Financial Assistance office to confirm your enrolment to release your funding. You may notice this as a status on your OSAP application. Please note that the estimated release date will continue to change until the enrolment is confirmed.
Your enrolment will be confirmed automatically during the first few weeks after the start of the semester. You must be registered in a full-time course load (60 percent or more, or 40 percent or more for students with an OSAP-verified permanent disability) for your funding to be released.
After your enrolment has been confirmed by the college, depending on the amount of your outstanding fees as well as the amount of the OSAP installment, a deposit from the National Student Loan Service Centre will be made into your student account at George Brown, available through Stu-View. This can take 5-10 business days after your enrolment has been confirmed.
Any remaining OSAP funding can take up to 10 business days after your enrolment has been confirmed to be deposited by the National Student Loan Service Centre in your bank account. If your expected instalment has not been received by your bank within 10 business days after the date of your enrolment confirmation, please contact the National Student Loan Service Centre at 1-888-815-4514.
Please check your status to verify your three-semester study period by logging in to your OSAP account.
Before your second instalment is released, you will receive an email prompting you to log in to the OSAP website and complete an income update.
Updates about your application will be posted online on your OSAP account. Check your OSAP Message Centre regularly and opt-in for email notifications so you know as soon as updates occur.
You can be considered for part-time OSAP if your course load is between 20-59.99% of a full course load. This course load percentage is defined by what program and semester you're enrolled in.
The application for part-time OSAP is available in the same online account that full-time students use, except you choose part-time.
Apply for Part-time OSAP
If you’re back in school full-time and have previous OSAP loans, then you must ensure that they are placed into interest-free status. When your loans are in interest-free status, you don’t have to make payments on the interest and principal.
If you do not keep your loans in interest-free status, you'll be required to start repaying your loan(s) within six months of the end of your last study period.
If you previously received full-time OSAP funding that you are in the process of repaying, you are now required to submit an online CIFS application by logging into your OSAP account. The old CIFS form will no longer be accepted.
The online CIFS application maintains interest-free status for full-time students who previously received OSAP.
If you're not currently receiving OSAP, but are repaying a previous OSAP loan, and continuing in full-time studies, you will need to complete an online CIFS application.
If you previously received student loans from a province outside of Ontario or previously had part-time student loans including OSAP, a Schedule 2 form will be required to maintain interest-free status.
The Ontario Student Assistance Program (OSAP) is a financial aid program that offers funding for post-secondary education in two forms:
Funding is available for both full-time and part-time post-secondary students enrolled in an OSAP-eligible program, and is based on a number of factors. 
If you are a part-time post-secondary student interested in OSAP information, please contact the Financial Assistance Office.
Apply for OSAPOSAP AID ESTIMATOR
You can see an estimate of the amount of funding you could receive using the OSAP aid estimator. The estimate might not reflect the actual amount that you are eligible for. Your actual amount will be based on your completed application.
OSAP aid estimator
You'll need your social insurance number to register for your OSAP Access Number (OAN). You'll need an OAN to log in if you're a returning user.Apply for OSAP as early as possible to allow enough time for processing of your application. You must submit an OSAP application for every school year that you want to receive funding.
Apply for OSAP
Returning users can obtain a new password by visiting the financial assistance office at any public college or university. You'll need to bring your government-issued photo ID and social insurance number (SIN) card.
If you don't have a SIN card, you can provide proof of your SIN in the following ways:
Required documentation will be listed once you have completed your online OSAP application.
Submit the following required documentation (based on your application) to the Financial Assistance office at George Brown College (in-person, by mail or via document upload link provided on the OSAP application):
Students who must provide a Master Student Financial Aid Agreement (MSFAA), the  "Required Documents" page will display the following information:
Effective May 2018, there is a new 2 step process to complete your MSFAA.
The MSFAA must be completed and submitted electronically.
You can log on to the OSAP website to check the status of your application. Once all documentation has been processed your funding assessment will appear in your account.
Average timelines for document processing are typically 4-6 weeks, but this may vary during peak periods (August/September and December/January).
Please note: should changes in your status (personal, financial, academic) occur, this could impact the amount you are assessed for. Please contact the Financial Assistance Office at George Brown should your status change.
If your OSAP application is complete and assessed to receive funding, OSAP will ask George Brown's Financial Assistance office to confirm your enrolment to release your funding.  You may notice this as a status on your OSAP application.
Your enrolment will be confirmed automatically after the start of the semester.  You must be registered in a full-time course load (60 per cent or more, or 40 per cent or more for students with an OSAP-verified permanent disability) for your funding to be released. 
On the OSAP application, you were given the option to have OSAP send your funding directly to the college to pay for your tuition.  If you selected this option, after your enrolment has been confirmed by the college a deposit from the National Student Loan Service Centre will be made into your student account at George Brown, available through Stu-View.
If you will be receiving your OSAP funding directly, it can take up to 10 business days, after your enrolment has been confirmed, to be deposited by the National Student Loan Service Centre in your bank account.  If your expected instalment has not been received by your bank in 10 business days after the date of your enrolment confirmation, please contact the National Student Loan Service Centre at 1-888-815-4514.
Please check your status to verify your three-semester study period by logging in to your OSAP account.
If you want to be considered for OSAP funding for the spring/summer semester, please submit a new OSAP 2019-2020 application for that semester by logging into your OSAP account at http://ontario.ca/osap
Before your second instalment is released you will receive an email prompting you to log in to the OSAP website and complete an income update.
It's your responsibility to report any changes to the information relating to your OSAP application to George Brown's Financial Assistance office.
Some examples include:
These changes could impact your eligibility and assessment amount. Failure to notify OSAP of these changes can affect your OSAP eligibility for the current and future term.
Interest-free status is when you are not expected to make monthly payments on your outstanding loans from OSAP. Maintaining your "interest-free status" means that you do not have to repay your OSAP loan while you're in school, and that the Government of Canada and/or the Province of Ontario will continue to pay the interest on your loan.
Interest-free status is available for students currently enrolled in full-time post-secondary studies.
If you do not keep your loans in interest-free status, you'll be required to start repaying your loan(s) within six months of the end of your last study period.
If you previously received full-time OSAP funding that you are in the process of repaying, you are now required to submit an online CIFS application by logging into your OSAP account.  The old CIFS form will no longer be accepted.
The online CIFS application maintains interest-free status for full-time students who previously received OSAP.You can submit your online application 15 days prior to the study period start date.
The deadline to submit is 21 days before the study period end date.
You must maintain a minimum full-time course load per term of 60 per cent of more, and 40 per cent for students with permanent disabilities
CIFS records are updated automatically for full-time students receiving OSAP once your school confirms enrolment.
If you're not currently receiving OSAP, but are repaying a previous OSAP loan, and continuing in full-time studies, you will need to complete an online CIFS application.
If you previously received student loans from a province outside of Ontario or previously had part-time student loans including OSAP, a Schedule 2 form will be required to maintain interest-free status.
The first six months after you graduate, finish your studies, or stop being a full-time student is called your six-month grace period.
During this period:
You start to repay your loan at the end of the seventh month after you leave school.  If your family income is low, you can apply to make reduced monthly loan payments, or no monthly payments at all through the Repayment Assistance Plan.
To learn more about loan repayment visit the National Student Loan Service Centre for more information.
View an on-demand NSLSC orientation webinar
View an on-demand NSLSC repayment webinar
For further information, please contact George Brown's Financial Assistance office.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.