
Did you know you can spend an entire semester (or two) abroad? Depending on your program, we offer opportunities to complete an exchange in countries like Denmark, Japan and more. The longer duration of exchanges allows you to immerse yourself in the culture you are visiting. You will not only learn your course curriculum - you will also get a truly international education!
An exchange with one of our partner schools gives you the opportunity to take credits abroad, explore new cultures, learn new ways of doing, and expand your personal and professional network.
While on exchange, you will pay tuition to George Brown but enjoy the benefits of the partner school. Academic credits are transferable from the school abroad back to George Brown upon the successful completion of the program.
We have opportunities for current George Brown students to go abroad through exchanges. You can learn about the application process below.
If you are interested in completing an exchange, please connect with your department contact below to discuss your intentions to go abroad.
Contact us for the application form at globalmobility@georgebrown.ca. All applicants are required to have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA. You can access your current GPA by going to STU-View and finding your Curriculum Advising & Program Planning (CAPP) report.
Submit your completed application (application form, letter of intent, academic study plan, and CAPP report) by the deadline date by emailing: globalmobility@georgebrown.ca
You may be invited to an interview regarding your desire to participate in an exchange approximately one month after the application deadline. Please review your letter of intent and academic study plan prior to the interview.
The Global Mobility team will contact successful candidates by email and formally nominate candidates to the host school. The nomination will include additional steps, which include but are not limited to:
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.