
The Parkdale child care centre, located in Parkdale Junior and Senior Public School, opened in September 2015. In partnership with the Toronto District School Board (TDSB), this centre places a strong focus on supporting families within the local community and offers programming for preschool to school-age children.
As one of 12 George Brown owned and operated child care centres, this facility serves as a model lab for the college’s diploma and degree programs in the School of Early Childhood. Students have the opportunity to work with kindergarten and school-age children and their educators in a classroom setting. They also receive support in developing their skills in working with both children and families in the hands-on component of their academic training.
Manager:  Colette KaneEmail: ckane@georgebrown.ca
Centre Phone Number: 416-393-8386Address: 78 Seaforth Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, M6K 3L2Age groups accommodated:  18 months - 10 yearsHours of operation: 8 a.m. – 5:30 p.m.Food: Catered by TDSB
The Childcare centres in the School of Early childhood have applied for and have been approved for the CWELCC program.
All of our lab schools will follow the guidelines from Toronto Children’s Services in the implementation of the CWELCC plan. As such, the fees are inclusive of all of our services. Therefore, we do not charge any additional fees for extracurricular activities or transportation, etc.
Children under the age of 6 are eligible for the fee reduction.
To join our waitlist, please complete this form. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.