
Partnerships are integral to the work we do each day at George Brown. Our industry and community partners advise us on program development, engage in college-led research projects, support student success, collaborate with us on community initiatives, and much more.
Community engagement opens doors to innovation, economic development and student success. That’s why George Brown is committed to building high-performing, mutually beneficial partnerships with institutions, industry and the broader community. By engaging meaningfully with our community through partnerships, we enrich the experiences of our students and our institution, while creating the conditions for social and economic success at a societal level.
Our Strategic Partnerships and Grants Office works closely with organizations across the GTA and around the world to develop partnerships that increase career relevancy, provide pathways to innovation and new technologies, and build an expansive lifelong learning ecosystem. Together, we are building strong bridges between learners, employment and the community.
As one of Canada’s top research colleges, we listen and respond to the needs and ambitions of our partners to accelerate and promote Canadian innovation. Our Research and Innovation team supports industry and community organizations in accessing the expertise, equipment and funding support they need to develop innovative products and services. Working with students and employees in state-of-the-art facilities, our partners conduct research and innovation projects ranging from food product development to intelligent automation, while helping prepare job-ready graduates with the skills to excel in their chosen careers.
George Brown has eight research and innovation areas of focus where industry and community partners access vital research and development support from the college’s academic centres:
Food & Beverage
Interactive Design
Product Development
Social Innovation
Fashion
Sustainable Built Environment
Health & Wellness
Teaching & Learning
At George Brown College, we are continually working to reduce our eco-footprint and our contribution to climate change through sustainability-driven procurement, green buildings, energy retrofits and zero-waste strategies.
George Brown is poised to transform Toronto’s skyline with the construction of our mass-timber, net-zero carbon emissions building, Limberlost Place. Scheduled to open in the summer of 2024, this new addition to our Waterfront Campus will be the first institutional building of its kind in Ontario.
Harnessing green energy from the surrounding environment using solar chimneys, rooftop photovoltaics and deep-water cooling, Limberlost Place will function as a living lab, allowing students to learn in and from the building, as well as the innovative techniques and materials used to construct it. This project will create job opportunities for a wide range of skilled workers, while helping establish more environmentally sustainable building practices.
Limberlost Place will house George Brown’s School of Computer Technology, School of Architectural Studies and a childcare centre that supports the community. It will also be home to the Brookfield Sustainability Institute, a research and innovation hub focused on addressing problems related to climate change. Working in collaboration with community and industry partners, we will develop solutions for building sustainable communities that are environmentally, socially, culturally and financially viable.
2021-22 was a year of transformative change at George Brown College, as we welcomed a new President, launched our Indigenous Education Strategy and Anti-Racism Action Plan, broke ground on Limberlost Place, and celebrated many new partnerships, programs and initiatives. We invite you to visit the 2021-22 Fast Facts to learn more about what our students, employees, partners and broader community achieved together last year. 
Fast Facts
George Brown is committed to fostering an equitable and affirming learning and working environment where all community members feel a sense of inclusion and belonging.
Taking meaningful steps towards reconciliation is essential to redressing the legacy of colonialism in Canada and creating a truly inclusive and equitable learning ecosystem. As we work to integrate Indigenous ways of knowing into George Brown’s curriculum, classroom practices and institutional decision-making, we are guided by our Indigenous Education Strategy.
This strategy was shaped by the knowledge and wisdom of Indigenous people within our community and across Canada, and aligns with the principles of Colleges and Institutes Canada’s Indigenous Education Protocol. It will serve as an integral roadmap as we seek to meet the needs of the community, respond to national frameworks on reconciliation and become a leader in Indigenous education.
George Brown is working to end all racism in our community. We recognize that in order to effect progress and make real change, this crucial work must include every member of our community and be integrated into everything we do.
Our Anti-Racism Action Plan outlines the tangible steps we are taking to become an anti-racist institution and cultivate a community of belonging for Black, Indigenous and racialized students and employees. It focuses on five priority areas:
Commitment:Leadership and governance commitments and accountabilities
Culture and Climate:Creating inclusive and affirming spaces for Black, Indigenous, racialized students and employees, enhancing our learning environment
Capacity and Capabilities:Ensuring employees and students have necessary skills and awareness to engage in anti-racism
Curriculum:Integrating anti-racism in teaching, learning and research practices
Community:Enhancing engagement activities with Black, Indigenous, racialized communities and employee advancement practices
GEORGE BROWN COLLEGE
As we grow with Toronto, George Brown College is committed to being an active partner in city-building and community development. Our downtown campuses and satellite locations add vitality to local neighbourhoods, while supporting lifelong learning, job creation and economic growth. 
George Brown helps learners of all ages and stages achieve their career goals, while enabling local employers to attract new talent and conduct innovative research. Our highly skilled graduates are the heartbeat of Toronto, serving as the city’s nurses, early childhood educators, entrepreneurs, construction managers, chefs, business and community leaders, and other key contributors.
DOWNLOAD PRINTABLE PDF
Employers are looking for workplace-ready graduates who can hit the ground running. To ensure a smooth transition into the labour market, 100% of our career-focused programs include at least one experiential learning opportunity.
Our state-of-the-art learning spaces are modelled after real-world work environments, allowing students to learn by doing:
Nearly 24,000 square feet of simulated hospital, long-term care and home care settings allow Health Sciences students to practice their skills in a safe and controlled environment.
Health Sciences students provide dental care, personal training, and hearing tests to the public. 
Hospitality and Culinary Arts students prepare and serve meals in a restaurant setting. 
We operate 12 child care centres across Toronto, where students and faculty from the School of Early Childhood support local families.
Theatre students perform for live audiences in the Distillery District.  
Our students have meaningful access to industry through work-integrated learning placements, industry projects, capstone projects and more. These experiential learning partnerships enable learners to gain practical experience in their fields, while developing the technical and soft skills employers value most. At the same time, they enable our industry and community partners to help shape the knowledge and skills of future graduates in their field; gain fresh perspectives and ideas; and meet and assess potential new hires.
Brad Goreski(Graduate 1999, Theatre Arts)
Celebrity Fashion Stylist, TV Personality and Judge on Canada’s Drag Race 
Shannon Hosford(Graduate 1999, Sport and Event Marketing)
Chief Marketing Officer, Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment2020 5 to Watch Alumni Achievement Award Winner
Roger Mooking(Graduate 2001, Culinary Management)
Celebrity Chef, TV Personality, Author and Recording Artist
Vivene Roberts(Graduate 1993, Child and Youth Care)
CEO, Wraparound Specialized Foster Care Services
Paul Sharma(Graduate 1999, Dental Hygiene)
Mass Vaccination Program Co-lead, Region of Peel
Mike Holmes Jr.(Graduate 2014, General Carpenter Apprentice)
Professional Contractor and TV Personality
This report was designed by Graphic Design student Nathan Leung and Interaction Design student Elisa Oh as part of the experiential learning initiative at George Brown’s IN Design studio.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.