
The Indigenous Initiatives team hosts events throughout the year. View summaries of our past events below. Some summaries include recordings of the events to encourage further learning.
NOVEMBER 21, 2023
Join us for our Two-Part November IKKS installment with EJ Kwandibens. In this special edition of our IKKS Series, EJ will be sharing his knowledge on Eagle Staff Teachings and how this knowledge is critical to the preservation of Indigenous culture and wisdom. This event not only provides the GBC community with a better understanding of Indigenous knowledge but exposes participants to traditional modalities of teaching.
In his Community Healing Circle, EJ will touch on themes of belonging, acceptance, societal norms, and what healing means on both a personal and community level. This Community Healing Circle also welcomes GBC’s Indigenous counsellor Laraine Hale for a fruitful, meaningful discussion.
NOVEMBER 10, 2023
Join Indigenous Initiatives on Friday Nov. 10th for its final installment of Treaty Education Week activities as we reflect towards the education that was gained, and the actions that can be completed to move forward into a better tomorrow. Participants will have the opportunity to engage with ‘Mentimeter’ to create a mosaic of what people learned during Treaty Education Week. The Mosaic will then be placed in each of our student centers as living proof of the work the GBC community contributes to treaty relationships.
NOVEMBER 9, 2023
About the Event:
Join GBC Indigenous Initiatives in welcoming GBC Indigenous Education Council Chair, Frances Sanderson as we discuss the importance of treaty relationships, territorial acknowledgments, and how these treaties have shaped our past, present and future. Moreover, what does Treaty recognition look like in action? Why is meaningful action for educators and students alike to have a better understanding of the Treaty history in Canada? How can individuals new to Canada become more aware of Treaty relationships? How does the impact of treaties vary from urban to rural areas? We hope to see you at this engaging and informative presentation.
About Frances Sanderson:
Raised in East York, currently residing in Scarborough. Frances is the Executive Director, Nishnawbe Homes Inc. She is the previous Co-Chair of the Aboriginal Affairs Committee. Other responsibilities include: Chair, Indigenous Education Council, George Brown College; Member, Toronto Aboriginal Support Service Council (TASSC); Member, Indigenous Housing and Homelessness Community Advisory Board (CAB); Chair, Aboriginal Consultative Committee, Toronto Police Service. Nishnawbe Homes provides affordable and safe housing to Indigenous people in Toronto.
NOVEMBER 8, 2023
Join Indigenous Initiatives to not only recognize Treaty Education Week but hold remembrance for the Indigenous veterans that have served. November 8th, 2023 is Indigenous Veterans Day, and on behalf of George Brown College, we would like to thank Indigenous contributions to the military, and the over 12,000 individuals that served in WWI, WWII and the Korean War. Chi Miigwech for your service.
During this event, participants will have the opportunity to bead their own poppy pin while listening to the GBC Podcast episode with Maurice Switzer. In this podcast, Maurice Switzer discusses ‘Treaties and the Treaty Relationship’. Explore the land and environment we call home in Toronto and learn about our treaty responsibilities. Let’s make life healthier and more fulfilling for everyone! Individuals who still wish to make a beaded poppy pin and watch the GBC podcast with Maurice can email indigenous.services@georgebrown.ca for an at home kit. 
NOVEMBER 7, 2023
Join Indigenous Initiatives either in person at Waterfront in room 227, or join us virtually as we watch Maurice Switzer’s dive into depth towards Treaty Education. During this time, in person participants will have the opportunity to make themselves their own mini-wampum belt! Those who want to engage in this event virtually but still wish to be involved in the mini-wampum belt activity can email indigenous.services@georgebrown.ca.
Virtual Treaty Education Talk with Maurice Switzer, Bnesi, Mississaugas of Alderville First Nation, Author: “Grandpa, what is a treaty, anyway”; “We are all Treaty People”; “Nation to Nation: a Resource on Treaties in Ontario”. Maurice shared with us the treaty relationship that made possible the peaceful settlement of Canada; topics included the Royal Proclamation of 1763, Treaty of Niagara (1764), Canadian Constitution relevance, and contemporary impacts of treaty violations.
NOVEMBER 6, 2023
"I would like to take this time to acknowledge..." Sound familiar? But what does a land acknowledgement even mean? Indigenous Initiatives is hosting an interactive virtual event for the GBC community to learn a bit more about Treaty Education, Land Acknowledgements, and the importance of action in Treaty relationships. Winners of the Kahoot Trivia will win one of 3 $50 PC Gift cards! 
A short presentation for students about imagineNATIVE - they have so many incredible career and educational opportunities that they want to share with the Indigenous students at GBC! This is to encourage young or aspiring filmmakers and digital media artists to submit to their Festival! They embrace independent and young creators, and want students to know that imagineNATIVE is a welcoming space for them. They also offer grants and other opportunities for individuals to further their personal development journey.
OCTOBER 28, 2023
Was shown as Ada Slaight Stage, Young People’s Theatre, 165 Front St. East
OCTOBER 19, 2023
In this Indigenous Knowledge Keeper Series, Cody Coyote presented his workshop “Healing Through Art.” Cody Coyote speaks about his experiences with being an intergenerational survivor of the '60s scoop, overcoming bullying and finding healing through art. 
This presentation also highlights reclaiming cultural identity and language as well as focusing on a message of togetherness. The speaking component of this presentation is 45 minutes in duration, includes a live performance of 3 songs during it and is followed by a 15-minute Q&A period.
We hosted a free workshop on January 12 with Marissa Magneson about Métis dot art. Métis dot art is a contemporary form of artwork where beads are replaced by small dots of colourful paint.
Marissa Magneson is a Cree-Métis artist, photographer, educator, and workshop facilitator. She has a BFA honours degree from York University and a Master’s degree in Canadian and Indigenous Studies from Trent University.
Her Master's focused on Indigenous research methodologies using beadwork as visual storytelling. Marissa's work is centred around decolonizing education, strengthening community and cultural reclamation. In her collaborative work with various organizations, Marissa works towards photographing, consulting, educating, and creating programming in meaningful ways. She is currently a doctoral student in the Faculty of Education at York University, where she is researching beadwork as pedagogy, a bridge toward reconciliation and cultural reclamation.
OCTOBER 17, 2023
This event took place at the Waterfront Student Center, room 227
SEPTEMBER 29, 2023
This year's Sacred Fire was held in Sherbourne Common, next to our Waterfront campus. A Sacred Fire Ceremony is an Indigenous tradition used for prayer, personal healing and other spiritual purposes. All college community members were invited to join us for the ceremony and to offer tobacco into the fire as petitions for survivors, their families and the children who never returned home.
SEPTEMBER 28, 2023
The Indigenous Initiatives Team was excited to welcome Senator Mary Jane McCallum to our GBC Community as she shared her story and vision for the future.
In 2017, Senator McCallum was appointed to the Senate of Canada as a representative of Manitoba. She assumed this mantle with reconciliation top of mind, recognizing its importance for Canada if we are to be recognized as human rights leaders. In May 2021, Mary Jane McCallum was appointed as Chancellor of Brandon University. She is the first Indigenous person to serve in the role for Brandon University, as well as BU’s first female Chancellor.
Senator McCallum often speaks to diverse groups about residential schools. She believes that Canada must never forget the genocide of their Original Peoples and that lateral and vertical violence against Indigenous Peoples persists today as a result of sustained governmental policies. In recognizing and reclaiming autonomy, she believes that Indigenous Peoples are well on the journey toward reclaiming spirit and power.
September 25, 2023
Indigenous Initiatives embarked on a reflective journey through time during Truth and Reconciliation Week. The Woodland Cultural Center hosted a Virtual Tour on Monday, September 25th, 2023, of the Former Mohawk Institute Residential School, which is one of the last remaining of its kind in Canada. The Woodland Cultural Centre serves to preserve, promote and strengthen Indigenous language, culture, art and history, bringing the story of the Haudenosaunee people of the Eastern Woodlands to life through innovative exhibitions and programs.
AUGUST 28, 2023
Virtual Treaty Education Talk with Maurice Switzer, Bnesi, Mississaugas of Alderville First Nation, Author: “Grandpa, what is a treaty, anyway”; “We are all Treaty People”; “Nation to Nation: a Resource on Treaties in Ontario”. Maurice shared with us the treaty relationship that made possible the peaceful settlement of Canada; topics included the Royal Proclamation of 1763, Treaty of Niagara (1764), Canadian Constitution relevance, and contemporary impacts of treaty violations.
In commemoration of Earth Day, our April Indigenous Knowledge Keeper Series featured Anishinaabe Indigenous rights advocate and leading global youth environmental activist Autumn Peltier. There was an in-person screening of the short film, The Water Walker, followed by a fireside chat co-hosted by George Brown College’s Chef Professor David Wolfman. This session provided valuable insight into Autumn’s journey in empowering youth to preserve and protect our environment, and the road that lies ahead as the fight for the water rights of Indigenous communities continues.
This event was delivered in collaboration with OPSEU Local 557 and OPSEU Local 556. In-person attendees will be provided with a free copy of The Water Walker, written and illustrated by Joanne Robertson.
Autumn Peltier is an Indigenous Rights & Water activist whose journey for justice has made waves around the globe. She is 18 years old. Peltier captivated the world's attention at the age of 12 when she admonished Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, at an Assembly of First Nations event, for the choices he had made for her people. At 13, Peltier first spoke at the United Nations General Assembly. Amongst many accolade’s she's received the Sovereign Medal of Exceptional Volunteerism from the Governor-General of Canada and Lieutenant Governor of Ontario. She's been a featured speaker at The World Economic Forum sharing the stage with Greta Thundberg, is a regular guest speaker at The United Nations, has been shortlisted for the International Children's Peace Prize 3 times, and in 2022 was runner-up for International Children’s Peace Prize with the Nobel Peace Prize committee. She was recently featured on the front cover of Maclean’s and included in Maclean's Top 50 Canadian Power List. In 2022; Peltier was an Honorary Doctorate Inductee from Royal Roads University and received the Daniel G Hill Award from Ontario Human Rights Commission as well as the Emerging Canadian Leader Award from Public Policy Forum. Autumn’s movie “The Water Walker” documentary was released on HBO Canada in 2021.
Our February Indigenous Knowledge Keeper Series featured Anishinaabe author, illustrator, and water protection activist Joanne Robertson. In this session, we learn who water walkers are, why they walk, and whom they walk for. Joanne shares stories and images that inspired her award-winning book, The Water Walker.
Joanne Robertson is bald eagle clan, and her communities are Atikameksheng, Essex County, and Algoma. She earned her degree in Fine Arts from Algoma University and Shingwauk Kinoomaage Gamig at age 50; this is where she met Nokomis (grandmother) Josephine-ba Mandamin. She has helped coordinate nokomis’s water walks since 2011. She continues to support water walks through live GPS spotting to ensure the water and water walkers are safe. She lives near a river in Northern Ontario and is currently working on a third book for the water.
 
The Indigenous Initiatives department was pleased to announce the opening of a new student centre at Waterfront Campus! This Centre will support learners who are situated at Waterfront Campus, although all are welcome.
This new space comes in addition to our current Sahkitcheway and Wichihitowin Centres and will support learners in their educational journey. A 'home away from home,' students will be able to access computers, printing, cultural, financial, and academic support, as well as a space to study, lounge, or connect with their peers.
We welcomed students, staff, and faculty to join us for the Grand Opening on January 30 where we were joined by Elder Julie Debassige and Elder Shishigo to celebrate the new space in good faith.
For our January Indigenous Knowledge Keeper Series, we were joined by plant medicine educator Joseph Pitawanakwat. Joseph shared the cultural and medicinal significance of plants and how to preserve our relationship with them year-round.
Joseph is Ojibway from Wiikwemkoong, married with one daughter. The Founder & Director of Creators Garden, an Indigenous outdoor and now online, education-based business, focused on plant identification, beyond-sustainable harvesting, and teaching every one of their linguistic, historical, cultural, edible, ecological, and medicinal significance through experiences. Joseph has learned from hundreds of traditional knowledge holders and uniquely blends this knowledge and reinforces it with an array of western sciences.
We hosted a free workshop on January 12 with Marissa Magneson about Métis dot art. Métis dot art is a contemporary form of artwork where beads are replaced by small dots of colourful paint.
Marissa Magneson is a Cree-Métis artist, photographer, educator, and workshop facilitator. She has a BFA honours degree from York University and a Master’s degree in Canadian and Indigenous Studies from Trent University.
Her Master's focused on Indigenous research methodologies using beadwork as visual storytelling. Marissa's work is centred around decolonizing education, strengthening community and cultural reclamation. In her collaborative work with various organizations, Marissa works towards photographing, consulting, educating, and creating programming in meaningful ways. She is currently a doctoral student in the Faculty of Education at York University, where she is researching beadwork as pedagogy, a bridge toward reconciliation and cultural reclamation.
We celebrated the turning of the season with a Winter Solstice Lunch n' Learn. We were joined by Elder Pauline shirt, who delivered a teaching on our relationship with the sun, moon, stars, and planets and how we can better reconnect with the natural world while being treated to a warm meal.
We were joined by Moka May Dawkins, a Black and Indigenous racialized trans/2s freedom fighter, for a conversation about Trans Awareness Month.
November 8 & 10
We were joined by Maurice Switzer for a special 2-part series, "We Are All Treaty People," on November 8 and 10. This series was to celebrate Treaties Recognition Week.
Maurice Switzer, Bnesi, is a citizen of the Mississaugas of Alderville in southern Ontario, one of seven First Nations involved in the 1923 Williams Treaties. He is the author of "We are all Treaty People," a graphic novel of which some 15,000 copies are in print. At various times Maurice has been publisher of the Winnipeg Free Press, communications director for the Assembly of First Nations and Union of Ontario Indians, and an appointee to the Ontario Human Rights Commission. He lives in North Bay, where he serves as chair of Nipissing University's Indigenous Council on Education and president of the North Bay Indigenous Friendship Centre.
October 4, 2022
In commemoration of the National Day of Action for Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls, we had former Olympian and Indigenous Rights Activist Waneek Horn-Miller discuss her advocacy and resilience as a Mohawk woman.
This event was delivered in collaboration with the Office of Anti-Racism, Equity, and Human Rights Services and the Centre for Preparatory and Liberal Studies.
Few people can claim to have a story even close to as incredible as that of Waneek Horn-Miller. While protesting the infamous Oka Crisis, teenage Mohawk Waneek—from Kahnawake Mohawk Territory—was stabbed in the heart by a Canadian soldier: and almost died. She fought for recovery and emerged with a mission—and PTSD—to fight for what’s right and be a leader not only for her community but for the global community.
Waneek became a champion swimmer, representing Canada at the Olympics and taking home the gold at the 1999 PanAm Games. And now, she channels this spirit of perseverance and resilience into advocacy: once again turning trials into triumphs, Waneek is one of the most vibrant and powerful Indigenous advocates today. In her inspiring keynotes, Waneek traces her incredible path and shows how fighting for justice—even in the face of intimidating odds—can unlock your full potential.
October 6, 2022
On October 6, we went for a guided bus tour facilitated by First Story Toronto, a community-based organization that researches and shares Toronto's Indigenous presence through education initiatives. First Story Toronto works to increase awareness and appreciation of the long and continuously unfolding history of Indigenous accomplishment in Toronto, to engage in anti-racist and social justice initiatives related to Indigenous peoples, and to support efforts to increase capacity for Indigenous leadership in the city.
September 30, 2022
On September 30, we held a Sacred Fire Ceremony at Waterfront Campus. Sacred Fire ceremonies are an Indigenous wellness approach used for several reasons, including prayer, gratitude, and personal healing.
September 26, 2022
We hosted a Special Edition of the Indigenous Knowledge Keeper Series with Raiden Levesque. Raiden shed light on the significance of sacred fire ceremonies in Indigenous culture through the storytelling of his journey as a Sacred Fire Keeper.
Raiden, also known as White Bear Standing, was born in Mississauga, Ontario. Raiden is a citizen of The Métis Nation Of Ontario, his ancestors have Irish, French, Cree, Saulteaux, and Dakota ancestry. Raiden loves to participate in the ceremony any chance he can, and is considered an Oshkabewis (helper), Traditional Knowledge keeper, and Fire Keeper. He is a member of The Thunderbird clan, and his Spirit name is White Bear Standing.
September 24 & 25, 2022
Returning after a two-year hiatus, the Chippewas of Georgina Island Pow Wow was held at the Sutton District High School grounds on September 24 and 25.
September 22, 2022
We invited the community to join the Indigenous Initiatives team on September 22 for our Soup and Bannock Meet and Greet! Participants met the Indigenous Initiatives team, connected with peers, and enjoyed a free lunch catered by local restaurant Tea N Bannock.
September 21, 2022
Introducing Métis artist Rosalie Favell for September’s Indigenous Knowledge Keeper Series. Rosalie discussed identity and storytelling in her artwork.
Rosalie Favell is a distinguished Métis artist with a creative practice that spans over 40 years who has achieved national and international acclaim. Favell has used photography, portraiture, and painting to understand and represent her ancestry and identity in works that have been exhibited and collected nationally and internationally. Rosalie explores cultural entanglements, the challenges of representation, and themes of empowerment and identity. Her work focuses on her lived experience as a Métis woman, merging aspects of Métis identity, gender, heritage, and elements of popular culture. As someone who has influenced generations of Indigenous and non-Indigenous artists, Rosalie is a leading figure in contemporary Indigenous art and photography.
We welcomed special guest Chief Laforme, elected chief of the Mississaugas of the Credit First Nation to discuss ‘Indigenous Ways of Knowing'.
We hosted an online conversation with Knowledge Keeper Mark Sault (Gikinoo’amaagew inini), who shared his knowledge of plants, harvesting, and the holistic uses of many sacred medicines. We welcomed a new season with these valued teachings.
Participants learned about the history of Turtle Island, the formation of what is now known as Canada, and the significance of the Wampum belt from Indigenous Counsellor and Professor Bob Whiteduck Crawford.
November 2, 2021
Participants took a virtual story walk focusing on some of the significant treaties of the Toronto area and a discussion of our ongoing treaty responsibilities today. FIRST STORY TORONTO is an Indigenous community-based organization that researches and shares Toronto’s Indigenous presence through popular education initiatives such as storytelling walks throughout the city.
October 1, 2021
We were joined by our keynote speaker Chief Cadmus Delorme Cowessess First Nation for the launch of the Indigenous Knowledge Keepers Series. He spoke about Truth must come first, then reconciliation will prevail and What we all inherited and how we must all play our part. Chief Cadmus was named one of CBC Saskatchewan’s Future 40, which celebrates the province’s new generation of leaders, builders and change-makers under the age of 40.
September 30, 2021
Shishigo is Anishinaabe from Wabadowgan/Whitesand First Nation and is a residential school survivor who has shared her story of hope, survival, resilience, and courage. She is a proud grandmother and mother. She is a spiritual woman who helps to guide her community through teachings while holding a safe space for dialogue, stories and sometimes simply an ear to listen.
The Indigenous Education and Services team teaches about the Four Sacred Medicines during this learning session.
See how we commemorated Orange Shirt Day at George Brown College on September 30, 2020.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.