
If you received OSAP during your study period, you need to repay if:
Watch Repayment Webinar
Interested in getting an estimate of what your monthly loan payments will be when you leave school? Use the OSAP repayment calculator for full-time OSAP loans to find out.
Once you graduate or leave full-time studies, you have six months before you have to start repaying your loans.
Please note: since loans are made up of federal and provincial portions, you'll be charged interest on the provincial portion of your loan during the six-month grace period after finishing your studies. This interest is added to your loan principal (the balance of money you borrow).
Between April 1, 2021 and March 31, 2023, Canada will not be charging the interest on the federal portion of an OSAP loan.
We recommend using the OSAP repayment calculator early on so you know what to expect and can budget accordingly after your six-month grace period.
Your National Student Loans Service Centre (NSLSC) account is very important when it comes to repaying your OSAP loans. Through your account, you can manage your loan, make payments, and apply for repayment help if you need it. (More on that below)
Within six months after you graduate or leave full-time studies, you'll get a package from NSLSC that tells you:
Your payments are based on a 9.5 year pay-back schedule. This pay-back schedule is the average amount of time it takes to pay back an OSAP loan.
Repaying student loans is an excellent way to establish and improve your credit score. You can make additional payments on your loan at any time if you want to repay it faster.
You may be able to extend your six-month grace period if :
You can apply to the Repayment Assistance Plan to lower your monthly loan payments for a six-month period. If you qualify, during the repayment assistance period, you will either:
Learn more about repayment assistance
If you want to lower your monthly loan payments, you can extend your repayment period from 9.5 years up to 14.5 years. You can do this through your National Student Loans Service Centre (NSLSC) account.
Visit NSLSC account
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.