
International Students must have valid documents to be able to stay and study in Canada. Visitors, workers and students can apply online for faster processing.
Whenever possible, students are encouraged to apply online to extend their study permit, TRV, and/or apply or renew their work permits. If you have already submitted a paper application, please do not submit an electronic application as this will not speed up processing.
Below please find information on study and work permits, important reminder and temporary resident visas (TRV) and electronic travel authorization (eTA).
If you already have a study permit and are looking to submit it, please click the button below:
Upload Study Permit
If you are applying for a study permit for the first time please refer to information on the Canadian government website. Please be sure to read all the instructions carefully.
International Students must have valid documents to be able to stay and study in Canada. If you are from China, India, Vietnam, or the Philippines, we can help! Check out the link below.
Need a Guaranteed Investment Certificate?
Study Permits can be extended from within Canada only and we recommend students to submit applications electronically online to IRCC or by mailing an application with supporting documents to CPC Edmonton, Alberta (please see below for more information about applying by mail).
Visit the Government of Canada website for information on how to apply for your Study Permit extension online.
Learn more about the extension process
Please Note: If your address changes at any time make sure that you visit the Citizenship & Immigration Canada (IRRC) website and inform them of a change of address.
Applicants can only apply for study permit extension by mail if they can’t apply online due to disability or problems with their online application. Applicants should visit the Extend your Study Permit page of the Canadian government website for more information.
Apply Online!
International Students must have valid documents to be able to stay and study in Canada.
Visitors, workers and students can apply online here for faster processing.
Whenever possible, students are encouraged to apply online to extend their study permit, TRV, and/or apply or renew their work permits. If you have already submitted a paper application, please do not submit an electronic application as this will not speed up processing.
If you are a registered, full-time student with a Study Permit, you are able to work at any job on campus without having a work permit. To see if you qualify check Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada’s guidelines for work permits for students.
You can work as an international student in Canada if your study permit lists a condition that says you’re allowed to work on- or off-campus
To work on campus, you must:
International students may qualify to work off campus without a work permit. If you qualify, your study permit will allow you to work up to 20 hours per week.
You can work as an international student in Canada if your study permit lists a condition that says you’re allowed to work on- or off campus
To qualify to work off-campus, you must:
You must stop working on the day you no longer meet the above eligibility requirements (e.g., if you are no longer a full-time student during an academic session.)
Use the self-assessment tool to see if you are eligible to work off campus without a work permit. Please note you need a Social Insurance Number (SIN) from Service Canada to work in Canada or to receive benefits and services from government programs.
International students who are undertaking any kind of field education (co-op, externship, practicum, clinical, etc.), regardless of length, must have a valid co-op/intern work permit. You can submit this application at the same time as your study permit application. If you did not apply for your co-op/intern work permit along with your study permit or did not receive one with your study permit, you will have to submit a separate application through CIC while in Canada well in advance of the start date of your placement.
The work permit is a document required by Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) before international students can start their field placement, work placement, externship, practicum, even if these placements are unpaid. Students in programs that require placements involving hospital settings and/or interaction with families and children in Canada are required by the IRCC to undergo a medical exam by a Panel Physician.
See the Canadian government webpage on medical exams. Medical exams performed by a Panel Physician are valid for up to 12 months. If you completed a medical exam for your visa application and it is still valid, you may be able to submit proof of this medical with your application for a co-op work permit. The IRCC medical exam is in addition to completing the mandatory program-specific pre-placement health forms which may be mandated by your academic department (see georgebrown.ca/preplacement for details).
The International Centre will prepare the Co-Op Certification Letters based on a list of students provided by the Academic Department.
Download the Co-op Letter request formThe list will include the following information:
If a student has a HOLD on the student information system or is not currently registered, a Co-Op Certification Letter cannot be issued.
When the Certification Letters are ready, the International Centre will either:
a. Inform the academic department so student can pick up the letter from the International Centre; or
b. Send the letter to the department where it can be picked up by the student.
For details and information on how to apply for a co-op work permit please visit the Canadian government website here.
International students are eligible to apply for a Post-Graduation Work Permit that is valid from 8 months to up to three (3) years, depending on the duration of the academic program successfully completed. Please check with the IRCC (formerly CIC) to confirm eligibility. For more information, please visit the Canadian government website.
If you’re an international student who wishes to apply for the Post-Graduation Work Permit you must:
Applications for a Post-Graduation Work Permit can be submitted online or by mail.
Visit work in Canada after you graduate
If the program you completed or the line of work you will be looking for involves working with Canadian families, the disabled, the elderly/seniors, or children or at any health care institutions and community services, and you want to work in this field, you may be required to get a recent (valid for 12 months) medical exam by a Panel Physician, to be issued a Work Permit without conditions. Please check the IRCC website or call the IRCC Call Centre at 1-888-242-2100 for details.
You need a Social Insurance Number (SIN) from Service Canada to work in Canada or to receive benefits and services from government programs. For more information about a Social Insurance Number please visit the Social Insurance Number Overview page on the Canada government website.
 
International Students must have valid documents to be able to stay and study in Canada. For instance, a valid Study Permit allows students to study in Canada. Students from many countries may also be required to have a Temporary Resident Visa (TRV) or Visitor Visa to enter Canada in addition to the Study Permit requirement.
Students currently in Canada with a valid Study Permit must apply for the TRV to the Case Processing Pilot Office (CPP-O) in Ottawa. Please visit the Case Processing Centre webpage for detailed information.
 
Planning to travel outside Canada and return by air? Make sure you have an Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA), otherwise you may get stuck at the airport.Canada has introduced a new entry requirement, known as an Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA), for visa-exempt foreign nationals travelling to or transiting through Canada by air. Exceptions include U.S. citizens and travellers with a valid visa.This new requirement is now mandatory and travellers need an eTA before they can board their flight to Canada.
A friend or family member may want to visit you during your stay in Canada. In most cases, the friend or relative will be required to apply for a Temporary Resident Visa (TRV) in order to enter Canada. Follow these steps when you want to invite someone to visit:
This information has been reviewed by a Regulated International Student Immigration Advisor (RISIA). However, immigration policies can change without notice. Students are solely responsible for ensuring that they are in compliance with all Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) regulations at all times during their studies and while in Canada, including any medical or study and work permit-related requirements. For the most up to date information, please refer to the IRCC website directly at IRCC webpage or consult the IRCC Contact Centre at 1-888-242-2100 to confirm or clarify immigration-related information and requirement.
 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.