
By Dr. Gervan Fearon
The COVID-19 pandemic has radically transformed the nature of work and learning, but if you think the big changes are over, think again. From climate change to digital disruption, urbanization to shifting demographics, Canada’s labour market is being reshaped by countless forces, which we see reflected in participation rates as well as in productivity. So how do we rebuild our economy and communities in the wake of COVID-19, while preparing for the rapid, constant change to come? This is where polytechnic institutions are critical. 
Canadian employers need career-ready graduates with the knowledge and skills to hit the ground running, even as the ground is shifting under their feet. The long runway from on-boarding a new employee to them becoming a performance contributor is shortening due to competition around the world, not simply around the corner. Talent competency and productivity are core to competitiveness and profitability – replacing traditional factors such as access to cheap resources and local production.  No institution is better designed to prepare the workforce of tomorrow than the country’s polytechnics. In fact, it’s our mandate. 
Polytechnic institutions, like George Brown College, are agile, innovative, and always evolving. Because we work closely with industry on curriculum development, applied research and work-integrated learning, we are able to anticipate and meet the future needs of the labour market. In fact, 86 per cent of polytechnic graduates find jobs in their field of study within six months. The project manager at your construction site, the chef in your restaurant and the personal support worker caring for your family – each of them likely got their training at a polytechnic.      
We provide industry-responsive education, so graduates enter the workplace ready to produce immediate results. Students learn by doing in state-of-the-art facilities ranging from commercial kitchens and health care labs to construction workshops and design studios, and are taught by instructors with years of professional experience in the field. This combination of theory and practical skills gives graduates an advantage when they enter the workplace. 
At George Brown in Toronto, 100 per cent of our career-focused programs include at least one experiential learning opportunity. These experiences with employers allow students to build confidence and competency in real-world settings. The result is a robust talent pipeline where students who work with industry partners are often hired by those same firms upon graduation.  
Throughout the pandemic, we have leveraged new technologies and ways of working to prepare students for job success not just here in Canada but in the global market. A recent pilot project enabled our students to develop intercultural skills through virtual placements with companies in Spain, Portugal, China, Japan, Singapore and Sweden. 
As the pace of change speeds up, our students are learning to innovate and problem-solve alongside industry through participation in college-led research projects. Working with our partners, they gain hands-on experience bringing new ideas to life and improving existing practices and products. Over the past 14 years, George Brown has provided more than 15,000 student research experiences.  
By offering collision spaces for industry, learners and educators, Canada’s polytechnics have become hubs for innovation, ideation and cutting-edge talent development. We prepare graduates for roles in high-demand and emerging fields such as cybersecurity, the green economy, health care and the skilled trades.    
We have leading edge simulation labs and students get access to the most recent technology and equipment as part of their learning experience. Throughout the pandemic, we have established innovative teaching methods, so today there is an integration of online and in-person teaching. This gives students access to experts from around the world. Canada’s polytechnics are training a workforce for a future where we can compete and succeed at a global level. 
In addition to diplomas, degrees and postgraduate programs, polytechnics offer short-term credentials that provide learners with emerging skills and ensure industry has access to these skilled employees – even as the most in-demand skills are evolving and changing. For example, George Brown recently partnered with robotics solution provider GlobalDWS to create an online Service Robotics micro-credential, which brings working professionals up to speed on this emerging specialization.  
At last count, the polytechnic network offered nearly 17,000 continuing education, professional development and contract training programs.  
Polytechnic graduates have also been essential in the fight against COVID-19. To support Canada’s pandemic response, George Brown recently participated in one of Ontario’s largest Personal Support Worker recruitment and training drives, and increased capacity in our Nursing and Practical Nursing programs. Not only are these workers essential to our pandemic response, but to the ongoing support of Canada’s aging population.  
As you can see, polytechnic graduates are highly skilled, adaptable and ready for the big changes ahead. There is just one problem: Canada does not have enough of them! 
In 2020, our polytechnic institutions produced 94,500 graduates. But to address Canada’s most pressing challenges – such as recovery from COVID-19, addressing climate change and supporting our aging population – we need thousands more. We need individuals with the skills, talent and values that will add to the triple bottom line – focusing on people and our planet, as well as profit. This is the kind of future-proofing that distinguishes polytechnics and George Brown is proud to be at the forefront of these efforts. 
Whether you are an individual looking to change careers or update your skills, a newcomer to Canada, a soon-to-be high school graduate, or a university graduate interested in training or a particular industry, there has never been a better time to consider polytechnic education. Additionally, if you are a parent or guidance counsellor, now is the time to familiarize yourself with the many advantages we offer.   
As Canada rebounds from the pandemic, and adapts to the many changes yet to come, polytechnic graduates will be essential to building a brighter future for us all.  
Dr. Gervan Fearon is the President of George Brown College.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.