
George Brown College recognizes that our students may use a first name other than their legal name and that a student’s preferred first name should be used whenever possible. As a result, we have created the option for students to change their preferred name through a self-service process on Stu-view.
Starting March 1, 2021 students can elect to change their preferred name using this process, it will be reflected in Stu-view, Brightspace, Email, and in Microsoft Office applications. However, this process will not alter a student's name where a legal name is required for business practices and legal requirements, including official records issued by the College like transcripts, confirmation of enrolment, financial records, and credentials.
As there are many interconnected systems throughout the college, they may handle the preferred name information differently. As a result, as we continue to implement changes to these areas, students and departments must know that every system may not reflect a student's preferred name. We appreciate your patience as we work to continuously improve this process in order to create a positive student experience.
Please note that name change submissions may be modified or cancelled at the discretion of the College.
Students will need to log into their Stu-view account, select the 'Personal Information' tab, and select 'Preferred First Name', where a fillable field will allow them to enter a name of their choosing. Once this information is entered, it will be directed to the Office of the Registrar and within 2-3 business days, will be updated on the student record. Once a request has been processed, an email will be sent to your George Brown College email confirming the change.
Please note that name change submissions may be modified or cancelled at the discretion of the College.
The preferred name will appear in the following systems on the student record:
The preferred name will not alter the name displayed where a legal name is required for business practices and legal requirements. Some departments are required to send information to the federal or provincial government where a legal name may be necessary. Additionally, some college systems are not yet integrated with the preferred first name information and will use a legal name. The following documents issued by the College will not reflect a student's preferred first name:
As there are many interconnected systems throughout the College, some systems may handle the preferred name information differently. As a result, as we continue to implement changes to these various areas, students and departments must know that some systems may not reflect a student's preferred name. This may include official college communications (for instance, emails and other communications) where your legal name may still appear.
Students can decide their preferred first name. However, the College reserves the right to remove a name if it contains inappropriate or offensive language, or is used for misrepresentation.
A legal name change requires proof of documentation (like a marriage license or other legal name change documents) and will be reflected on all student records, including transcripts, credentials, confirmation of enrolments, and financial records.
A preferred name change does not require supporting documentation and can be completed through Stu-view.
Students must provide legal name change documents to change their legal name with the College. These include a Marriage Certificate (for proof of surname changes), a Legal Name Change document, a Birth Certificate, or a Driver's License. For official name changes, students must provide supporting documentation either in person at the Student Service Centre or via email to registration@georgebrown.ca. Staff and Faculty wishing to change their names must contact Human Resources (hr@georgebrown.ca).
Students who would like to change their first name on all student records and on documents issued with the College (including transcript, financial records, and credentials) can use our Official Document Preferred Name Change Request Form. Additional information on the process is indicated on the form.
At this time, we are only able to include changes to the preferred first name. Changes to pronouns are something we are investigating for later phases of the system implementation.
Yes, this name will automatically appear on your student record if you applied on or after March 1, 2021.
Yes, students must contact Registration with a request to revert your first name to your legal name. Once that is completed, you may use the Stu-view option described above.
Yes, you can request to have your gender updated. However, gender is not currently displayed on any front-facing system (including Brightspace and Stu-view).
 
For students seeking additional resources, or who have concerns related to human rights, discrimination and harassment please contact the Office of Anti-Racism, Equity & Human Rights Services at diversity@georgebrown.ca.For students seeking additional information on the preferred name change process, please contact registration at registration@georgebrown.ca.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.