
Please find the George Brown College Counselling and Student Wellbeing Services Privacy Policy outlined below.
George Brown College Counselling and Student Wellbeing Services (herein “GBC Counselling”) is located in Toronto, Canada and serves registered students who are experiencing mental health challenges, academic concerns, stress and interpersonal issues. George Brown College provides services in person and online from its Casa Loma, St. James, Toronto Metropolitan University or Waterfront Campuses. Our professional staff, including regulated health care providers are committed to collecting, using and disclosing personal information responsibly and only to the extent necessary for the goods and services we provide.
Please be advised that by providing personal information or personal health information to GBC Counselling in relation to our counselling services you consent to the collection, retention, use and disclosure of your information in accordance with this Privacy Policy and applicable privacy law.
GBC Counselling recognizes that the information you provide is private and we are committed to keeping that information confidential. All information is collected, used, and disclosed in accordance with privacy legislation, such as the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (“FIPPA”), R.S.O. 1990 and the Personal Health Information Protection Act (“PHIPA”), 2004. This privacy policy, and our commitment to adhere to applicable privacy law, applies all personal information and personal health information that we collect in the course of providing counselling services. GBC Counselling understands and takes seriously its responsibility securely and lawfully handle all personal health information in our custody or control.
GBC Counselling will at all times comply with applicable privacy legislation in the collection, storage, use and disclosure of information. 1 of 4 GBC Counselling collects, uses and discloses personal information, as well as personal health information, for the primary purpose of providing counselling services and/or providing resources that may assist students with issues they are experiencing. GBC Counselling also collects, uses and discloses information for secondary purposes that include abiding by reporting obligations of licensed professions that are subject to professional Colleges (i.e. the College of Psychologists of Ontario, College of Social Workers and Social Service Workers, etc.), complying with legal obligations under privacy legislation, to administer, audit and improve counselling services, to communicate with students, for training and compliance purposes, and as required or permitted by law. Personal health information is accessible within GBC Counselling Services by individuals who need to access the information in relation to counselling services. As well, personal information may be accessed by staff where needed to perform authorized services such as scheduling appointments, facilitating referrals, and managing information security.
George Brown College may use third-party service providers to deliver certain services that require access to personal information stored in our servers. We have contracts with these service providers prohibiting their use or disclosure of this personal information for any purpose other than to provide their services to George Brown College. These third-party service providers are also obliged to employ security safeguards to protect personal information.
George Brown College uses various physical, electronic and procedural means to safeguard personal and other information that it collects, including but not limited to:
In order to provide counselling services and to fulfill our legal obligations, George Brown College will need to retain personal information, including personal health information. We retain personal health information we have collected for 10 years, or, for minors, for 10 years from the date of the client’s 18th birthday. This policy is based on direction from the College of Regulated Psychotherapists of Ontario (CRPO), which states:
Requests for access to personal information must be made in writing. With only a few exceptions, students have the right to see what personal information Counselling Services has on file about them. Students will be asked to make this request in writing to Attention: Freedom of Information Coordinator. The Freedom of Information Coordinator can help you identify what records the Counselling Services might have about you. George Brown College reserves the right to charge a nominal fee for such requests. If the College cannot give you access, we will tell you within 30 days if at all possible and tell you the reason why access cannot be provided.
If a student believes there is a mistake in the information, the student has the right to ask for it to be corrected. This applies to factual information and not to any professional opinions Counselling Services may have formed. Counselling Services may ask the student to provide documentation that the information in the file is wrong. Where Counselling Services agree that there is an error, the service will make the correction and notify anyone to whom it sent the incorrect information. If Counselling Services does not agree that there is an error, the service will include in the case file, a brief statement from the student on the point and then Counselling Services will forward that statement to anyone else who received the earlier information.
Requests for access or correction should be directed to the College’s Freedom of Information Coordinator as indicated below along with any questions, concerns or complaints about our information practices, and/or management of specific information.
For any questions and concerns, or to submit an access or correction request, please contact the Freedom of Information Officer:
Phone: 416.415-5000 ext: 4646
Email: privacy@georgebrown.ca
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.