
Our career-focused programs mean you’ll graduate with the academic credentials as well as the people and technical skills employers are looking for.
At George Brown College, you can choose from a large number of programs which will provide you with the skills you need to succeed in the modern workplace.
You’ll benefit from smaller class sizes, professors with years of professional experience and field education opportunities that will allow you to learn while networking with potential employers.
Our industry partners work with us to make sure that our programs are current and cutting edge, and that our students get insights and education not found in textbooks.
You can search by keyword or job title to find your program, and you can filter by school name and by domestic or international availability.
Diploma/Certificate Programs are 1, 2 or 3 academic years in duration. Most programs have start dates in September and/or January.
Graduate Certificates are postgraduate programs offered for students who have already graduated from a university or college. These are highly specialized 8- or 12-month programs designed to give graduates advanced skills in a specific professional field.
​With more college and university graduates entering the job market, a career-focused postgraduate program is a competitive advantage. In fewer than 12 months, your theoretical learning is enhanced with up-to-the-minute work skills, on-the-job experience and industry connections through field education. For working professionals, our postgraduate programs can also open doors of opportunity into new or related fields.
Degree Programs are offered in Financial Services, Hospitality, Construction Management, Early Childhood Development, Behaviour Analysis, and Interpretation. These are four-year Bachelor Degree programs, combining theoretical learning with opportunities for field education.
George Brown’s ESL program, English for Academic Purposes (EAP) is a full-time program divided into 9 levels of 8 weeks each. Your language skills are assessed when you arrive and you are placed in the level that is right for you. You may also request placement at the time of admission based on a TOEFL or IELTS score. Most students study for 6-10 months. The program prepares you for further academic study at the College and allows applicants from eligible countries to apply for conditional admission to George Brown's postsecondary programs. Visit the EAP (ESL) Program page for more information.
Your George Brown College diploma is also a passport to further education at many Canadian and international postsecondary institutions. See current transfer agreements and opportunities.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.