
At George Brown College, we offer programs that cover a wide range of subject areas and interests designed for diverse learners who come to us from all walks of life.  
You can complete an apprenticeship, earn a diploma or degree, pursue continuing education and more. 
Find out more about our different program types
Our program finder tool is an easy way for you to search all of our programs by subject matter, job title, credential and more. You'll also find information about when your chosen program starts and whether applications are currently open. Don't forget to use our program comparison tool to review the details of up to 3 programs side-by-side.
Explore the wide range of programs on offer to find the best option for you.
Review the details up to 3 programs side-by-side to understand how they compare.
Find out whether applications are currently being accepted for your program.
A program code is made up of a letter and 3 numbers and is a shorthand reference to a program’s full name. Wherever you see a program listed throughout our website, you’ll see its accompanying program code. For example: Culinary Management Program (H100)
Program codes are made up of a letter and a number. The letter represents which Academic Centre the program belongs to while the number represents the credential that a student will obtain upon graduating. For example, H100 is a diploma program in our Centre for Hospitality and Culinary Arts.
Use the charts below to determine what your program code means.
When you visit Ontario Colleges, our Online Application System for international students, or our Program Availability page, you’ll see that each program is assigned a status to let applicants know if they can apply. We’ve defined these statuses below.
Ready to Apply?
Check Program Availability
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.