
"0" from an internal College Cisco phone.
For non-emergencies please email gbccrimestoppers@georgebrown.ca
Welcome to George Brown College Public Safety and Security. We are here to enhance the quality of campus life by fostering a safe and secure environment for the entire George Brown College community. We will accomplish this through professionalism, mutual respect, and cooperation following college policies and the laws governing the safety and well being of our students, faculty and staff.
On the right side menu you will find links to our website including contact information, our services, safety tips, emergency procedures, news and announcements, and resources such as the Toronto Police website, Toronto Police Bicycle registration, as well as a confidential Tip Sheet.
In case of an emergency, please dial (416) 415-4000 or "0" from a George Brown College internal Cisco phone. If you require further assistance, please search under General Inquiries, where you will find contact information for the administrative and management staff for the Public Safety and Security Division. 
To submit a confidential tip, please email gbccrimestoppers@georgebrown.ca.
We strongly recommend downloading the GBC Safety app for a safer semester on campus.  
The app allows you to call emergency services (both 911 and campus security) at the touch of a button, send your live location to GBC Security if you need assistance on campus or to a trusted friend when travelling, and report a tip of any safety concern or suspicious activity on campus. 
We also encourage you to watch our safety videos, which will allow you to better prepare for an emergency should it happen on campus. These videos explain what to do in the event of a shelter-in-place, lockdown or hold and secure. 
Download the GBC Safety app:
There are four main types of emergency:
The Public Safety & Security team is working on a series of videos to explain what students and staff should do in the event of an emergency. The first three are available below.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.