
The Alumni Recognition Awards celebrate members of the George Brown College alumni community whose contributions and accomplishments have demonstrated leadership and enhanced the reputation of our alumni community and the College. The awards are part of our broader alumni recognition activities, aligned with the College’s Vision 2030 and LEAD values. The awards are presented annually. 
Though the criteria differ for each award, recipients have all demonstrated exceptional loyalty, dedication, and commitment to enhancing the alumni experience and have a significant impact on the college and our community through their efforts.
Though the criteria differ for each award, recipients have all demonstrated exceptional loyalty, dedication, and commitment to enhancing the alumni experience and have a significant impact on the college and our community through their efforts.
Two alumni will be recognized from each category.
Nominations are accepted continuously throughout the year. Anyone can nominate a candidate for a George Brown Alumni Recognition Award including the employers, friends, colleagues and family members of nominees. Awards are open to all graduates of George Brown.
Completed nomination forms must be received by February 20, 2024. Any nominations received after this date will be considered for the following year.
The nomination forms should be complete and include as much supporting documentation as possible.
Each nomination package should include:
 
Alumni Relations administers the Alumni Recognition Awards through an Awards Selection Committee. Nominations are invited from the broader George Brown community via the George Brown alumni web pages.
Selection is based on the nominee’s accomplishments in alignment with the criteria as highlighted on the nomination form. It is important that the nomination forms include all relevant information pertaining to the award criteria. Supplemental letters of support, biography, and list of accomplishments that clearly make the link between the nominee and the award for which they are being considered.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.