
This policy institutes a records management program framework, as the basis for G.B.C. to:
George Brown College's physical and electronic records are its corporate memory. They contain the information that is evidence of how the College performs its functions, and why decisions were taken; and they are a vital asset for its on-going operations. Effective records management ensures that the records maintained are:
All records created or received in the course of conducting G.B.C.'s business are official records of the College. These records exist as originals (or duplicates) in any physical form or medium, including paper and microform, or on electronic media such as computer-based systems, data tapes / disks, or audio / video recordings.
Controls are applied to the creation, maintenance, use, and disposal of G.B.C.'s records. These include retention scheduling, vital records protection, storage and administration of inactive records, management of record conversion programs, archival preservation, research access, disaster planning, and the certified records destruction required under the Privacy laws of Ontario and Canada.
Effective records management ensures that G.B.C. creates and maintain records to:
5.1 This Policy is established to ensure that authentic, reliable, complete, and usable records
5.2 The objectives of the Policy are to:
6.1 G.B.C.'s official records consist of all the recorded information – regardless of format created or received by the G.B.C. Board of Governors, College officials, and employees, in performing official duties or functions on the College's behalf. These records are held as evidence of G.B.C.'s organization, policies, decisions, operations, functions, procedures, and internal or external relationships or transactions.
6.2 All G.B.C. official records are the property of the College, and subject to its overall control. They must be created, used, maintained, and disposed of only in accordance with the guidelines and procedures approved by the appropriate College authority – the College Records Management Working Group.
6.3 This Policy applies to all aspects of the College's work, in all governance, academic, and administrative areas and locations where the College does business, encompassing official records that are held by the College, or other records that are under the College's control.
6.4 Employees leaving the College, or changing positions within the College, must leave all official College records in-place and intact, for their successors.
6.5 This policy provides the overarching framework for any other G.B.C. records management policies, practices or procedures.
7.1 All official records must be retained as long as necessary, to meet the legal, administrative, financial, and operational requirements of the College. Afterwards, they are either to be destroyed, or transferred to the College Archives, under the appropriate policy applicable.
7.2 Operational responsibility for G.B.C.' s records rests locally with each department head, including staffing and resource allocation support. Assistance is provided (through the Records Management Working Group), by the College Archivist, who provides advice regarding records management procedures and records retention and disposal support services.
7.3 The individual College offices are responsible to ensure locally that appropriate security measures are respected for maintaining any records containing personal or other confidential information, by supporting and monitoring staff compliance with this policy.
7.4 All records approved for destruction must be completely disposed of in a manner that safeguards the confidentiality of any information they may contain.
7.5 Destruction through the College Archives is mandatory for all G.B.C. records types that are "Listed" in Ontario's Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act Directory of Records as "Personal Information Bank" records. The College Archives ensures proper "Head of Institution" authorization signatures are obtained prior to the destruction, ensures it is carried out properly, and retains permanently the necessary "Certificate of Destruction" required by the legislation / regulations.
7.6 Final authority over the disposition of records held by G.B.C. rests with the College Archivist.
7.7 All official records that are permanently preserved must remain readily assessable to the relevant officers and employees of the College
8.1 The Records Management Working Group is established to develop the practical implementation of the G.B.C. Records Management Policy, and provide for its oversight. This includes the:
8.2 The Records Management Working Group reports to the G.B.C. Senior Management Committee
8.3 The Records Management Working Group's concern encompasses all G.B.C. records, other than those which are under the control of the College Archives. The policies and procedures relating to the administration and operation of the College Archives are the responsibility of the College Archivist.
8.4 At College policy-setting sessions, the membership of the Records Management Working Group consists of the following:
8.5 At working sessions, to consider or review specific records, the membership of the Records Management Working Group consists of the following:
The following documents are required to give effect to the Records Management Policy, and are developed under the Records Management Working Group's supervision:
10.1 The College acknowledges the laws, directives, guidelines, and agreements listed in Appendices A, B, and C to this policy that relate to records and information.
10.2 The College will develop record keeping systems that capture and maintain records with appropriate evidential characteristics in accordance with its obligations under their requirements.
Records
Ontario's Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (R.S.O. 1990 Chap. F.31), gives the following definition:
"Record" means any record of information however recorded, whether in printed form, on film, by electronic means or otherwise, and includes:
(a) correspondence, a memorandum, a book, a plan, a map, a drawing, a diagram, a pictorial or graphic work, a photograph, a film, a microfilm, a sound recording, a videotape, a machine readable record, any other documentary material, regardless of physical form or characteristics, and any copy thereof, and
(b) subject to the regulations, any record that is capable of being produced from a machine readable record under the control of an institution by means of computer hardware and software or any other information storage equipment and technical expertise normally used by the institution; ("document")
G.B.C.'s By-Law Number 8 - Article 2.7 Books and Records, states:
"The Secretary shall ensure that all necessary books and records of the College required by the Corporations Act, the OCAAT Act, the by-laws of the College, or by any other applicable statute or law, are regularly and properly kept.
“ The minutes of meetings of the Board of Governors or of committees of the Board of Governors, all by-laws and resolutions of the College, the register of all Members of the College or those who have been, within ten years, Members of the College, the register of Governors of the College with the several dates on which each became or ceased to be a Governor, and all other records of the College required to be open to the public for inspection shall, during normal office hours, be available to the public or to Members generally for inspection.
“Where possible, the by-laws of the Board of Governors shall be available to the public at no charge on a website on the internet. Each Governor shall be provided with a copy of the minutes of meetings of the Board of Governors and of committees of the Board of Governors and of such documents or records of the College as her or she may reasonably request.”
Records Retention Schedules
A Records Retention Schedule is a control document that describes the College's corporate records at a series level, and indicates:
This document serves as the College’s formal declaration for the retention and disposal of records.
Legislation /Regulations bearing on G.B.C. records and information
Ontario and Canada statutes (current, and historical) and/or regulations under them, municipal by-laws, and regulated professional organizations guidelines affect the records that the College creates, maintains, or destroys.
These Ontario and federal laws, and professional guidelines include (but are not limited to):
G.B.C. Policies and/or Procedures bearing on records and information
Other Directives, Guidelines, Agreements, etc. bearing on records and information
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.