
Last updated: September, 2020
By submitting my online intake form, I hereby consent to engaging in Video Counselling services (on-line counselling services) with a counsellor at George Brown College Counselling & Student Well-being Services. I understand that “Video Counselling” includes the practice of therapeutic support, goal setting, skills training, problem solving, and referrals to resources. Video Counselling services will occur through interactive video through a secure video platform called Zoom.
Zoom data is hosted in Canadian servers. This means the collection and use of the Zoom Software is in compliance with Canadian Data Protection regulations, including the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) and, locally, the Personal Health Information Protection Act (PHIPA). These two pieces of legislation set rules for how the College must handle personal data in the course of providing students support through its Counselling Services department. In order for Counselling and Student Wellbeing services to provide you support through its video counselling platform, you are asked to read the statements below and indicate your agreement by clicking on the “I agree” checkbox on the online intake form.
I understand and agree to the following rights and conditions with respect to Video Counselling services:
1. I have the right to withhold or withdraw consent to the provision of services at any time.
2. The George Brown College Counselling & Student Well-being Services Privacy Policy applies to all aspects of Video Counselling services.
3. To receive Video Counselling services, I must be physically located in the province of Ontario at the time of the appointment.
4. Risks: There are risks and consequences from Video Counselling services, including, but not limited to, the possibility that despite reasonable efforts on the part of the counsellor, the transmission of my personal information could be disrupted or distorted by technical failures, the transmission of my personal information could be interrupted by unauthorized person, and/or the electronic storage of my personal information could be accessed by unauthorized persons.
5. Limits of Service: Video Counselling services may not be as complete as face-to-face services. If my counsellor believes I would be better served by another form of intervention (e.g. face-to-face services) I may be referred to a mental health professional who can provide such services in my area.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.