
Changes to our LLC Laptop Loan Policy as of December 18, 2023; visit Library News & Services to read more.
In accordance with the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA), George Brown College’s Library Learning Commons will provide, upon request, an accessible or conversion ready format of print-based resources held in its collection to registered patrons with a disability. Print material from our special collections, archival materials, rare books and donations are not included in this service.
For registered students, faculty and staff with a perceptual disability as defined in the Canadian Copyright Act, accessible format copies of print material will be provided via the Accessible Content e-Portal (ACE).
The Canadian Copyright Act defines a “perceptual disability” as follows:
“perceptual disability” means a disability that prevents or inhibits a person from reading or hearing a literary, musical, dramatic or artistic work in its original format, and includes such a disability resulting from:
Students registered with Accessible Learning Services will be given a token to access the service through the Accessible Learning Services office.
Other eligible library patrons, including staff and faculty, should e-mail llcaccess@georgebrown.ca or phone Andrea Hall at 416-415-5000, extension 4635 to request access to the ACE portal.
For more information on the ACE portal please visit OCUL’s ACE page. Requests for training can be made at llcaccess@georgebrown.ca.
Please fill out the form (below) to request an accessible or conversion ready format of a book in our collection.
If you need assistance completing the form, please come to the Library Learning Commons Circulation or Reference Desk, e-mail llcaccess@georgebrown.ca or contact Andrea Hall at 416-415-5000, extension 4635.
For patrons currently registered with ACE please allow 5-10 days for the accessible format of the book to be placed in the ACE portal. You will be notified when the book is available.
For patrons not registered with ACE, you will be contacted within 24 hours (Monday to Friday, between 9:00 and 5:00) regarding your request.
If you have any questions about this service or require assistance please e-mail llcaccess@georgebrown.ca or contact Andrea Hall at 416-415-5000, extension 4635.
Connect to ACE
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.