
The Office of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights (OAREHRS) collaborates with faculty, employees, students, alumni and community stakeholders to develop anti-racism resources. These resources allow all of us to put our Anti-Racism strategy into practice across the college, consistently engaging our community. 
Learn how we're working to end racism at George Brown College through our anti-racism policy, anti-Black and anti-Asian racism resources, training opportunities and more.
In this video, Nadia Richards, George Brown's Manager of Anti-Racism Integration walks us through the first step in our Take 5 for Anti-Racism resource.
As educators, in order to create truly inclusive learning environments, we must actively commit to being anti-racist. We invite you to review these resources to help you develop an anti-racist classroom.
During the month of February, we created a celebration that centred the conversation on how we foster and promote Black futures while creating community for all. This work is ongoing and we will continue to add resources to Black Futures.
George Brown enlisted a consulting firm to examine our anti-racism policies and practices, as well as our responsibilities to entrench the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada’s Calls to Action into our culture and curriculum. Read our reports and publications to see how we're taking action on racism. 
Take 5 for Anti-Racism is a resource that guides the user through five simple steps to engage in Anti-Racism. This tool can be used by anyone: those who are versed in the anti-racism dialogue/practice, and those who are new to the topic
We offer a variety of anti-racism training for participants across the college. Training ranges from opportunities for beginners to team-building exercises for employees, as well as online e-training and more.
Learn more about what the college is doing to address Anti-Black and Anti-Asian racism at George Brown.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.