
Career Services supports the Academic Centres through workshops, events, an online job board and resource materials. In addition, each Academic Centre has a designated Career Advisor who will facilitate program-specific content and help develop a career-related curriculum. Question? Contact us.
Faculty are welcome to consult with their assigned Career Advisor for recommendations on career-related support resources or tools to support their classroom instruction.
Contact us
Faculty members are welcome to book a Career Advisor to deliver program-targeted workshops on a variety of career development. All available offerings are listed below and to request a workshop, please fill out our Workshop Request Form:
Workshop Request Form
*Due to current operational and staffing levels within Career Services, all workshops will be delivered mostly virtually. We apologize for the inconvenience. (Nov. 15, 2022)
Covers all essentials about our services: where we are, what we do, resources, and how we help students to be successful in their career development.
Learn about what employers look for in resumes and cover letters, how to create one, and how applicants can effectively market themselves and navigate Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS).
Learn about the purpose of the interview, review different types of interview questions, how to effectively answer them, and provides tips and pointers on how to prepare.
Understand how to grow your career through networking! Learn about networking dos and don’ts, how to create a 30-second elevator pitch, and how to conduct informational interviews.
A successful job search involves much more than just viewing the internet and looking at job postings. This workshop offers valuable tips on networking, informational interviews and how to take advantage of labour market research.
Understand how to develop your online presence by using LinkedIn to connect you to a broader network of professionals. Learn about the benefits of LinkedIn, creating a profile, effective networking tools and online portfolio resources.
Interview Prep is a great tool to assist faculty in facilitating in-class mock interview practice. Faculty can create and curate specific class lists and interview questions. Afterwards, students can use the platform and record their responses. After recording, students can send recordings to faculty or anyone else (even those without an account - such as an industry partner) to review and provide feedback.
Interview Prep ResourcesLog into Interview Prep
Interested in learning more about all of the helpful Career Services and resources students and alumni have access to? Visit our Students & Alumni page for up-to-date information and resources for use in the classroom.
Learn more
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.