
To support that journey of self-exploration and interrogation, we need to give ourselves space to rethink the ways we view race, racism, and anti-racism work. Several resources have been shared for you to explore various topics and challenge your own perspectives:
There are many ways to gain insights and perspectives on the experiences of racialized people, as well as their unique history. Furthermore, it is also important to challenge yourself in what perspectives you have, what narratives you have been exposed to and what narratives you believe.
If there’s one thing Canadians avoid, it’s talking about race. This podcast is here to change that. Join hosts Denise Balkissoon and Hannah Sung for a conversation on race in Canada. We won’t have all the answers, but we do ask bold questions.
In August of 1619, a ship carrying more than 20 enslaved Africans arrived in the English colony of Virginia. America was not yet America, but this was the moment it began. No aspect of the country that would be formed here has been untouched by the 250 years of slavery that followed. On the 400th anniversary of this fateful moment, it is time to tell the story.
In Seeing White, Biewen and collaborator Chenjerai Kumanyika explore the history and meaning of whiteness. 
In these resources from the United Nations' Fight Racism campaign, we are asked to rethink our perceptions.
In this activity, users are presented with a photo of a person and are asked what they see.
In this activity, users are asked to test their knowledge of fighting racism.
A wellness hotline available in Cree, Ojibway, Inuktitut, English and French. Online chat is available or you can call 1-855-242-3310.
This is a guided meditation to support Black individuals with stress recovery.
This episode explores how we’re missing out on the joys of our rich human community, and how mindfulness can help us dismantle the subtle patterns and habits that separate us from each other.
Move on to Identify
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.