
Richmond Adelaide opened in our new location after the centre was relocated to another building within the Richmond Adelaide Complex in January 2009. This new location is located on the mezzanine level and is space that was retrofitted from an art gallery to a state-of-the art child care centre including large windows and high ceilings. This centre is our second workplace centre in collaboration with Oxford Properties.
Our centre serves as a model lab school for the diploma and degree programs in the School of Early Childhood, and provides a training ground where college students are supported in developing their skills in working with children and families as they complete the hands on component of their academic program.
Manager: Laura AlexopoulosEmail: lmaddale@georgebrown.ca
Centre Phone number:  416-415-2453Address: 130 Adelaide Street West, Mezzanine Level, Toronto ON, M5H 3P5Age groups accommodated: 6 weeks to 5 yearsHours of operation: 8 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.Food: Catered by "Yummy Catering"
The Childcare centres in the School of Early childhood have applied for and have been approved for the CWELCC program.
All of our lab schools will follow the guidelines from Toronto Children’s Services in the implementation of the CWELCC plan. As such, the fees are inclusive of all of our services. Therefore, we do not charge any additional fees for extracurricular activities or transportation, etc.
Children under the age of 6 are eligible for the fee reduction.
To join our waitlist, please complete this form. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.