
Rudi Fischbacher, Dean, Centre for Hospitality and Culinary Arts (CHCA), leads the development of new programs that reflect industry innovation and the establishment of key partnerships to expand the CHCA’s reach and reputation and provide real-world learning opportunities for students. 
A dynamic and intuitive leader, Rudi thrives on building a strong culture of innovation and collaboration and prioritizes open communication to ensure everyone is working toward the same objective — providing students with the best possible learning experience.  
Before coming to George Brown College in 2022, Rudi held progressive leadership roles at Humber College including Associate Dean at the Faculty of Business, Associate Dean and then Acting Dean at the School of Hospitality, Recreation and Tourism. During his tenure, Rudi oversaw more than 20 programs, ranging from trade certificates, diplomas, advanced diplomas, degrees and post graduate certificates. One of his biggest accomplishments was leading the design, construction and opening of four new baking and culinary labs in 2016. He also developed strong industry and community partnerships to create programs to support disadvantaged youth at risk and to help supply nutritious meals across fourteen local shelters. Rudi was also a professor and program coordinator for a decade and was recognized with a Distinguished Faculty Award in 2008. He twice led a student, faculty and alumni team to the Culinary Olympics in 2008 and 2016, returning with a gold medal. 
Prior to his work in the college sector, Rudi was the Executive Chef/Food and Beverage Director at Stage West All-Suite Hotel in Mississauga.  
Rudi earned his Canadian Culinary Federation – Certified Chef de Cuisine designation and a certificate in Culinology and Food Service from the Guelph Food Technology Centre. He earned an MBA in Hospitality Administration and Management from the University of Guelph, a Certificate of Excellence in Educational Leadership and Administration from Colleges and Institutes Canada, and a Certificate in College Leadership Excellence from Colleges Ontario. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.