
Choose a career that never gets old
The School of Early Childhood offers diploma, degree and continuing education programs that can help prepare you to succeed in a wide variety of careers in Early Childhood Education (ECE).
Our programs combine classroom learning, with practical, hands-on experience  experiential learning opportunities at one of our 12 college-managed child care lab schools or with one of our Greater Toronto Area service agency partners. These field placement opportunities help you build confidence in your skills and give you practical experience in a real-world setting.
We are proud to offer our students Ontario’s largest network of school-owned and -operated child care centres. Want to see more? Tour one of our child care labs, a pre-school/kindergarten playground and an infant/toddler playground online through our virtual tour.
Whether you are ready to enrol in a full-time program, a part-time program or want to enhance your existing ECE skills with one of our Early Childhood Institute for Professional Learning courses, we have a program that can help meet your career goals.
PLEASE NOTE: All Early Childhood Education programs marked with an asterisk are currently offering a $2,000 tuition grant to domestic students starting in September 2023.
+For the Fall 2023 semester, George Brown will be offering two separate entrance scholarships for C305 degree completion students – a $1000 entrance scholarship and a second $1200 entrance scholarship. Visit our entrance scholarships page for details.Students starting this program in September 2023 will receive an additional $2,000 in each of Semesters 5, 6, 7 and 8.*
*This opportunity is funded in partnership with the City of Toronto, The Region of Durham, The Region of Peel, the Province of Ontario, and the Government of Canada under the new Canada-Ontario Early Childhood Workforce Agreement, which provides one-time federal funding to support the retention and recruitment of a high-quality child care and early years workforce.
If you are passionate about early childhood education but don't think you have the time to attend a full-time program, consider a part-time program through the School of Early Childhood. Whether you are just starting out or are looking to build on your existing credentials, we offer a variety of programs to suit your busy schedule.
Part-time programs are offered in the evening. Students must attend an orientation session before registering for a part-time program. Please call 416-415-5000, ext. 2310 to sign up for a session.
Continuing Education programs designed for the working professional. If you are working in the field of early childhood, you know what a dynamic sector it is and how rapidly it’s evolving. Our Early Childhood Institute for Professional Learning is designed to help prepare you to meet those changes and stay up to date.
New programs currently in development. Check back soon for more information!
As of January 1, 2021, the Honours Bachelor of Early Childhood Leadership (C300) program will no longer be included in the College’s Approved Education Programs List.
CLICK FOR MORE DETAILS
As part of our early education career training, George Brown operates 12 innovative child care centres in a variety of facilities across Toronto. Staffed by fully trained early childhood educators, the child care centres play an important role as lab schools, helping students develop their skills, and as crucial sources of high quality daycare for you and your child.
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.