
With technology constantly changing and expanding, there is always a demand for smart, capable, and adaptable IT professionals. Our School of Computer Technology combines the technical and teamwork skills you’ll need to meet that demand.
Studying here, you’ll have access to state-of-the-art equipment and expert faculty who bring their workplace experience to the classroom, striking the right balance between the theory and technical skills you need to know.
We have also developed a leading-edge curriculum that is regularly updated with real-world input from employers and industry insiders. This ensures that the skills you’re learning consistently meet the current needs of your industry. Industry input also informs our program offerings and as such, we recently became the first Canadian college to offer a full-time blockchain certificate program.
apply now
In addition to ensuring our programs are current with industry best practices, many of our partners are involved in field placement opportunities and industry-led projects that prepare you for the workplace.
Did you know that we are one of Microsoft Academy’s long standing partners in Canada, offering a complete curriculum, operating systems and software development? We’ve also partnered with both the IBM Academy and the premier CISCO Networking Academy. This partnership offers 9 industry-recognized certificates: A+, Server+, Linux+, Level 1 Installer, Java Programmer, CCNA, CCSP, CWLSS, and CCNP.
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.