
The Canadian business world is an ever-evolving environment. As companies adapt and change, they look for people who can do the same. An organization's success depends largely on attracting and retaining the right people and supporting employees so they can achieve their maximum potential. George Brown College can prepare you to deliver best practices in human resources.
George Brown College's School of Human Resources offers diploma, advanced diploma and graduate certificate programs that reflect current industry trends.
Our programs are designed in consultation with industry, so our students are ready to hit the ground running upon graduation. With all of our programs, learning extends beyond the classroom as students get real world experience through exciting field education and hands-on research projects.
Our Human Resources Diploma and Advanced Diploma programs are recognized by Canadian HR Reporter with a reader's choice award.
Our programs (B144/B154/B408) enable you to work towards obtaining the professional designations offered through the Human Resources Professionals Association (HRPA). Students should be aware that the HRPA has reviewed their designation framework and continues to update and change the qualification processes and requirements for their professional designations. Students interested in pursuing these professional designation are advised to check the HRPA website on a regular basis for updates.
The online postgraduate certificates programs offer offer working professionals the flexibility of a fully online business program scheduled in the evening and on weekends. Study online and develop professional skills in a year or less. Some programs include a work term.
 
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Book an appointment
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Attend an info session
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Sign up for a tour
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.