
Interested in a career helping others?
Leadership, teamwork and communication are just some of the skills you will be taught as a student in the School of Social & Community Services. Whether your interest lies in empowering individuals or learning how to support community development and change, our expert faculty will help prepare you for a rewarding career in this sector.
Our student-centred programs are designed with a social justice lens and focus on independent thinking, intervention know-how, community awareness and professionalism.
With over 1,200 students enrolled in this School each year, you will become part of a supportive learning community that will lay the foundation for your career and future professional network.
Previous students have secured work experience with organizations both large and small. Some of the more well- known institutions include: Child Development Institute, Sick Kids Hospital, YWCA Toronto, the City of Toronto, and the Toronto District School Board.
While the majority of field experience takes place within the GTA, we do offer a select number of international field education opportunities in Jamaica and India (eligibility requirements vary).
LEARN MORE ABOUT FIELD EDUCATION
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.