
Considering a career in mechanical engineering?
A career in mechanical engineering offers opportunities to work in a wide variety of industries from aerospace and automotive to telecommunications, health and entertainment.
Our programs take an experiential approach to learning where you’ll have access to the latest technology and facilities that you’ll use in your career. Many of our expert faculty are still working in their field and as a result, they are able to teach both the theory and real-world skills students need.
To ensure you have the flexibility to determine the program that best fits your strengths and career goals the first semester of all programs in the School of Mechanical Engineering are common which means you may transfer between programs at end of the first semester. This type of program design was considered to allow student mobility ensuring you get the full benefit from the program you graduate from.
In order to ensure our programs are meeting the current needs of the engineering industry, our programming is informed by several strong industry partnerships. These partners also provide co-op placements and projects, as well as financial aid through scholarships and donations.
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.