
A passion for storytelling, whether it’s through dance, drama, or digital production, can lead to an exciting and ever-changing career. Our School of Media & Performing Arts provides the ideal environment to take creative risks, hone your skills, and start making industry connections.
We’re located in downtown Toronto, home to hundreds of production, theatre, and dance companies. This means you can fully immerse yourself in the city’s art scene. Our skilled instructors and partnerships allow you to learn and work alongside industry professionals including actors, choreographers, dancers, directors, designers, and technicians. We mix theory and experiential learning, with a focus on industry-ready training, in addition to small class sizes where you’ll experience more intensive, focused learning.
Regardless of your area of study we like to give you opportunities to showcase your work and talent. Theatre Arts students perform their season at the Young Centre for Performing Art in the historic Distillery District. Our Dance program is run in partnership with  Ballet Jörgen and students perform at professional theatres in Toronto. And our Media programs offer a year-end showing of work as well as a final viewing of individual and collaborative video projects.
Recognizing that storytellers come in many forms, our Media programs cover a variety of mediums to help you tell your story. 
To reach the stage, in addition to a great deal of natural talent, there’s also a lot of technical training involved, and that’s where our theatre arts programs come in.
We are the only post-secondary dance program that has a direct partnership with one of the largest ballet companies in Canada, Ballet Jörgen.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.