
Interested in a career working with the Deaf and the Deafblind?
When you choose to become a professional Interpreter or Deafblind Intervenor, you will be selecting a career that can make a significant difference in the quality of peoples’ lives. The specialized skills you will develop will help you facilitate communication to and from members of the Deaf and deafblind community, giving them greater access to the world around them. By providing access to this otherwise inaccessible information, you will enable these community members to experience life to the fullest.
If you are interested in learning the fundamental language skills used to communicate with the Deaf and deafblind, we offer a one-year American Sign Language certificate program that introduces you to the language and culture of the Deaf community. This program will also prepare you for further study in our more advanced programs.
Want to provide a learning opportunity for our students? 4th-year students in our Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (ASL-English) provide limited pro bono interpreting services in authentic settings within the GTA by offering the Volunteer Student Interpreting Services.
CLICK HERE TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE GBC-VSIS PROGRAM
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.