
Thinking about a career in dental health?
Our School of Dental Health has a reputation for being the most diverse dental health school in the country, and our graduates are in high demand. Study in our state-of-the-art Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences located at the Waterfront Campus and learn the latest skills and trends in the field from industry qualified faculty.
We believe the best way to learn is to practice the skills you need to succeed in a safe and controlled environment. That’s why we’ve created the WAVE Dental Clinics – a clinical space of nearly 40,000 square feet dedicated to the School of Dental Health that features the latest technology being used in the dental field today. It includes 24 enclosed dental suites equipped for aerosol generating procedures, 75 dental chairs, plus an additional 14 chairs complete with x-ray facilities. Students from the School of Dental Health use this space to practice and hone their newly learned skills treating real clients under the supervision of qualified oral health care professionals.
To Pre-register for all Dental Services: Complete the online registration form or call: 416-415-4547
For a full list of fees a services, download our WAVE brochure.
PLEASE NOTE: The mandate of the WAVE Clinics is to support specific course outcomes and student learning experiences. WAVE clients are reviewed and accepted on a case by case basis. We reserve the right to refuse treatment to any client who does not provide an appropriate teaching opportunity.
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.