
George Brown Alumni Maria Pavlou and Richard De Oliveira talk about how the Architectural Technology Program led to successful careers in the industry. This program allows student to build a knowledge of industry fundamentals via their state of the art software and learning spaces. This combined with their strong industry ties and co-op opportunities help to produce a job-ready grad. Through the skill set implemented in the Architectural Technology program Maria and Richard were able to pursue careers they were passionate about and are proud to be George Brown College alumni.
“I am thankful that George Brown College provided portfolio classes. Having a portfolio is something that a lot of industries stress over and I think this class has helped me a lot in preparation for the interviews I had to go through before graduating.” explains Architectural Technology graduate Kimberlyn Lei who got her first job right after graduation working as an Architectural Technologist on the Design Team at Q4 Architects Inc. “I had considered going into university instead of college but what interested me more is being able to have the hands-on application that is given to you in college.”
Growing up, Amylia Martens was always fascinated by the Design Industry. "When I was little, I wanted to be an architect or an interior designer - I always wanted to get into some kind of aspect of design. By the time I graduated high school, I knew which college and program I wanted to attend and it was George Brown."
Amylia was accepted into the 3 year Architectural Technology program. "I choose George Brown because I liked the way the information was taught compared to other schools. I loved my college experience as the teachers were great and good friends were made."
 Architectural Technology - T109Graduated 2006
"One of the most rewarding aspects of working in the design and planning sector of the construction industry is definitely the final outcome of your hard labour – the construction of your project. Seeing a design that you worked on come to life is definitely a great experience!" explains Architectural Technology graduate Darryl Rahim, who is currently employed at Bregman and Hamann in downtown Toronto.
"Some of the most valuable experiences I had at George Brown included working collaboratively in the many group projects that were part of the curriculum.  Such group endeavours helped to prepare me for what I now encounter on a daily basis -- working with clients, collaborating with my peers, and organizing my time effectively. "
Architectural Technology Program - T109Graduated 2008
"There are only three words that can adequately express my 3 years at George Brown and those would be ‘Insightful, Informative and Inspirational’." says Michael Haynes who graduated from the Architectural Technology Program in 2008.
His most valuable experience involved being a participate in the ‘World House Costa Rica Online Charrette’ which focused on the search for housing solutions for the rural province of Guanacaste, Costa Rica. "This project helped me to feel what it was like to actually design a structure that could be constructed to shelter another person and not just another project design to be submitted to gain marks."
Architectural Technology Program - T109Graduated 2008
Tino Sisca chose the Architectural Technology program at George Brown College because he wanted to be at the "top of the food chain" in the construction industry.
"I knew I wanted to dedicate my career to the construction field and be part of a school that invested just as much interest to construction as I did to deciding what career path I wanted to take."
 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.