
The School of Management uses a hands-on approach to prepare students for the broader challenges of general management.
George Brown College’s School of Management offers a broad-based business education that can lead to a wide range of work opportunities, both domestic and international.  Our faculty stay connected to industry ensuring what you learn is relevant and desired by employers. Your education will include courses focusing on both the technical skills and the soft skills required by today’s employers such as teamwork, communication, leadership, decision making, strategy formulation, project management and problem-solving. 
Our graduates are working in logistics and project management, in the manufacturing and retail sectors, with financial institutions, government offices, consulting firms and other organizations large and small.
The online postgraduate certificates programs offer working professionals the flexibility of a fully online business program scheduled in the evening and on weekends.  Study online and develop professional skills in a year or less. Some programs include a work term.
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Book an appointment
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Attend an info session
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Sign up for a tour
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.