
If you’re looking for a way to channel your creative energy and ideas into a career, our School of Design can help you succeed. Our programs have a strong focus on hands-on, studio-based learning with our cutting-edge equipment and facilities. Through our extensive work-integrated learning opportunities, innovative applied research projects, and our industry-proven faculty, we’ll help you refine your talents and develop the people and technical skills you need to build your portfolio and network.
You’ll have the opportunity to immerse yourself in a modern digital environment where you can learn from fascinating guest experts and real-life endeavours. Such endeavours include design competitions where our students have won prestigious local, national and international awards. And if you’d like to add an international lens to your studies, we have partnerships with schools in Copenhagen and Italy among others.
We have over 500 industry partners and have established relationships with leading companies including Rogers Media, Ubisoft, Helios Design Labs, HM&E Design Comms., Corus, Kerr Smith, Uken Games, glu, and Game Loft among others. These partnerships inform our programming making sure our students consistently meet the evolving needs of the design world. In addition, they often provide field education opportunities where students get to learn and work alongside some of the best in their industry.
We’re home to the Institute without Boundaries, a think tank committed to collaborative and interdisciplinary design practice. And with Digifest, Toronto’s annual tech and innovation festival, students gain exposure to the industry’s leading thinkers and influencers.
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.