
We kicked off the new year celebrating a $50,000 donation from industry partner 123Dentist and an honorary naming at the School of Dental Health. 
George Brown College Provost Dr. Cory Ross, Centre for Health Sciences Dean Fay Lim-Lambie and School of Dental Health Chair Lisa Rogers welcomed Sandra Morrison, Vice-President of HR at 123Dentist, for a tour of the newly upgraded and expanded WAVE (Wellness, Applied Research and Visionary Education) Dental Clinic at Waterfront Campus. 
The School of Dental Health recently completed a one-year expansion project that includes 24 standalone dental suites equipped with floor-to-ceiling glass and ventilation technology to reduce the risk of virus spread from aerosol-generating procedures.  
"We're proud to support the School of Dental Health expansion project. 123Dentist considers this donation and our ongoing support of George Brown students an important investment in the future of our industry," Morrison said. "And it's clear our future is in excellent hands. This upgraded facility is incredible." 
123Dentist has long supported George Brown dental health students by funding scholarships and hiring our graduates. The organization's most recent donation went toward the WAVE Dental Clinic renovations. One of the new dental suites was officially renamed in 123Dentist's honour at the cheque presentation celebration on January 4. 
"We are pleased to have 123Dentist as a partner and incredibly grateful for this generous donation. Thanks to your support, the School of Dental Health is prepared to meet future public health challenges," Lim-Lambie said. "And we now have one of the largest dental clinic facilities in the Ontario college system." 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.