
George Brown College offers 2-year Diploma, 3-year Advanced Diploma, 4-year Degree, and 1-year Graduate Certificate programs at our School of Marketing in downtown Toronto.
Through the “2+2” model, if you successfully complete a 2-year diploma, you can transfer into the degree program (as can students from the 3-year diploma). This gives you flexibility if you decide you’d like to earn a Marketing degree. More information on transfers is found in the diploma program links (bottom of this page).
Whichever Marketing program you choose, you’ll be in the heart of the action, taking classes and completing field work terms in or around downtown Toronto. Because we’re surrounded by leading advertising, marketing, and communications agencies, we can provide access to top industry professionals and potential employers. Students learn real-world perspectives from our faculty members, many of whom continue to work in the industry. Students also participate in hands-on learning in all aspects of marketing, including:
Today’s employers are looking for graduates with a combination of marketing and analytics expertise to turn insights into leading strategic marketing campaigns. Our research, social media and database courses will teach you how to harness information and market to different customers with targeted communications.
The online postgraduate certificates programs offer working professionals the flexibility of a fully online business program scheduled in the evening and on weekends.  Study online and develop professional skills in a year or less. Some programs include a work term.
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Book an appointment
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Attend an info session
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Sign up for a tour
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.