
Not every classroom has four walls. Experience the passion of Hospitality and Tourism.
George Brown College acts as the bridge to connect students to industry, and exposure to premier restaurants, hotels and event planners. One of the best ways to learn a job is by actually doing it, so we offer field education placements in most of our programs to ensure you get real experience and are workplace ready. Visit us to tour our specially-designed, award-winning facilities for Hospitality studies and have your questions answered.
Pursuing diverse opportunities in the Hospitality and Tourism sector is becoming easier with the introduction of a common first year for students enrolled in our one-year certificate program and two-year diploma programs. All students will now take the same courses in year one, so you can experience various disciplines of Hospitality and Tourism before deciding on an area of specialization.
For some students, it can be hard to know what area of the hospitality or tourism industry you want to focus on without first-hand knowledge and experience. With a common first year, if you decide that the program you are enrolled in is not the best fit you will have the option to move to a different program without having to take new courses – so you won’t lose any time. Read more about the Common First Year.
Already have a diploma? Find out how you can fast track into the 3rd year of the Hospitality degree program.
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Contact one of our recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by booking a virtual meeting or by submitting an inquiry.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.