
All jobs are listed in alphabetical order.  If you do not see a particular position please scroll to the bottom of the list and click on the right arrow for the next page of postings.  
Click on job title to view the posting.
** If EMPLOYED currently or previously at George Brown, please click here and follow these steps:
1. Enter your employee ID with @georgebrown.ca appended to your ID. See instructions at bottom of screen for additional details
2. Enter your GBC generic password and click ‘Sign in’
** If not an employee, click the top right of this page to create a profile. **

Job alerts are sent when job opportunities that match your search criteria become available.

                    This link will load the career site and automatically perform a search with the same criteria that were just entered.
                

















As one of Canada’s Top 100 Employers for three years in a row, George Brown College is a workplace where the achievements and ideas of our employees are recognized daily, and where exceptional people are allowed to realize their full potential. In short, it is a great place to work!
At George Brown, we’re committed to fostering a learning environment that helps exceptional people realize their potential as we reward them with opportunities and challenges and we commit ourselves to delivering a “George Brown College standard” of quality and superior performance.  We hold ourselves responsible to ensure the future sustainability of the college.  We show mutual respect for each other and value our diversity. We value teamwork, accountability, integrity and service.
We provide our staff with meaningful work, responsive management, opportunities for advancement and a comprehensive benefits package. We offer competitive salaries. We have systems in place for employees to receive recognition for their individual performance and the overall success of the college.
To save time, money and trees, please submit your application online. Please note that we do not accept paper or email applications.
Before you apply, we encourage you to review the Online Job Application Information and FAQs
Once you have reviewed the job posting and are ready to apply for a position, simply click “Apply Now” on the left of the job posting and you will be led through a series of instructions on how to submit your application. 
Important Note: Should you experience any technical difficulties during the application process, please contact the Human Resources Department by emailing hr@georgebrown.ca and a College representative will respond to your concern.