
As you begin your self-reflection journey, we encourage you to take the following steps:
This is the first section of the Take 5 for Anti-Racism Primer. These questions are based on the Take 5 for Anti-racism Framework. This self-assessment has been developed to help support your personal growth and development in anti-racism practice. Please check the options that best describe you below.
Myth busters: Anti-racism education is only for White people.
False: Anti-racism education is for all people, as everyone and anyone can reproduce oppressive and racist practices. So, everyone needs anti-racism education to foster anti-racism practice.
For each question, please select the option that best represents you and keep track of your totals for each section.
For each question, please select the option that best represents you and keep track of your totals for each section.
For each question, please select the option that best represents you and keep track of your totals for each section.
For each question, please select the option that best represents you and keep track of your totals for each section.
For each question, please select the option that best represents you and keep track of your totals for each section.
Now that you've completed the assessment, add up the totals from each section and see how your totals align with the assessment key results.
This is a great time to begin my journey in anti-racism.
I am learning about Anti-Racism Practice and can think of the ways I can contribute.
I can have discussions and do work in anti-racism, but the learning continues.
Please select one of the listed documentaries and completed the reflection. Each documentary is less than 15 minutes in length and deals with themes like the wrongs of colonization, identity, traditions and more.
Evan’s Drum is a joyful visit to a family’s loving home and an uplifting story of cultural pride.
Watch Evan's Drum
Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada
It is important that we all learn about the Call to Action for Truth and Reconciliation on this land. It is our responsibility as settlers, displaced peoples and migrants to gain an understanding of what was promised, what was stolen and what is required for continual restoration and healing for the harmed caused by colonization and genocide of Indigenous peoples. It is also our responsibility to ensure we centre and learn about Indigenous lived experiences in our daily work and the knowledge we produce.
Learning about the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada is a step in the right direction.
Holy Angels highlights the wrongs of colonization and the residential school system in Canada.
Watch Holy Angels
Please pause to sit in your emotions. You may be experiencing compassion, sorrow, a need to acknowledge, guilt, anger, fear, uncertainty, etc. Sit and try to understand what you are feeling.
Remember, everyone has a part to play in understanding their social and historical location and how their identity has either been denied rights and privileges or benefited from the denial of rights and privileges to others.
Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada
It is important that we all learn about the Call to Action for Truth and Reconciliation on this land. It is our responsibility as settlers, displaced peoples and migrants to gain an understanding of what was promised, what was stolen and what is required for continual restoration and healing for the harmed caused by colonization and genocide of Indigenous peoples. It is also our responsibility to ensure we centre and learn about Indigenous lived experiences in our daily work and the knowledge we produce.
Learning about the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada is a step in the right direction.
Kamala Todd's short film is a lyrical portrait of Cease Wyss, of the Squamish Nation. Wyss is a woman who understands the remarkable healing powers of the plants growing all over downtown Vancouver.
Watch Indigenous Plant Diva
Please find some supports listed below for counselling or self-care. Hotlines have been listed below as additional support if needed. Throughout this primer, there will be different resources provided.
Anishnawbe Helath Toronto offers a multi-disciplinary approach to care including counselling services with the option of traditional counsellors or mental health counsellors, as well as psychiatry, psychology and case management.
Healing Journey One Button at a Time 
This is a short documentary following Mia Hunt and her making of a button blanket. The button blanket, unique to First Nations of the Pacific Northwest, is a treasured and important piece of Coast Salish culture.
Move on to Educate
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.