
George Brown students learn by doing. Under the supervision of faculty and experienced industry professionals they provide affordable products and services to the public as they develop skills and gain valuable real-world experience.
When you take advantage of the affordable services we offer, you're participating in the learning process by helping our students prepare for their careers.
Under the guidance of a professional instruction team, hospitality and culinary arts students put their skills into practice in a live restaurant environment, treating guests to a unique experience in the heart of Old Town Toronto. 
Learn more at thechefshouse.com.
Lunch from 11:30 a.m. Last seating 1:30 p.m. Dinner from 5:30 p.m. Last seating 8:30 p.m. 
The Chefs’ House is located at 215 King St. E.  
Follow us on Facebook/Twitter/Instagram @thechefshouse.  
Looking to pick up a quick snack or lunch? Chef School students prepare a variety of meal and snack options. A selection of cold and hot beverages is also available. 
The Café is open Monday to Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 2 p.m., (excluding holidays), at 300 Adelaide St. E., second floor. 
Follow us on Instagram: @georgebrowncafe and on Twitter: @GBCCafe.  
Want to pick up a takeaway meal for lunch or dinner, or a decadent dessert that's easy on your wallet? Our Chef School students sell freshly prepared meals, desserts and other products at our take-out retail outlet. 
Chef on the Run is located on the main floor at 300 Adelaide St. E.  
Tuesdays to Fridays, 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
For a recording of the weekly offerings, dial 416-415-5000 x 2515.  Follow us on Instagram: @chefontherungbc and Twitter: @GBCcotr.   
Our School of Early Childhood operates several childcare centres across the Greater Toronto Area that are staffed by fully trained early childhood educators. These centres provide meaningful learning opportunities for our students and high-quality childcare services to the children and families who use them. 
George Brown’s Casa Loma Child Care Centre and the other lab school childcare centres operated by the college are open and running in accordance with Ontario’s Ministry of Education, and provincial and municipal public health measures.  
For more information, please visit our Child Care Centres page. 
Our onsite WAVE Clinics (Wellness, Applied Research and Visionary Education) offer a variety of affordable dental services to the public.
Learn more about services offered, fees, how to register, and COVID-19 protocols on the WAVE Dental Clinic page. 
Our student-run fashion stores – City Uptown and City Downtown – offer the latest trends in clothing and accessories. 
Call (416) 415-5000 ext. 4840 for more information. 
Are you a local non-profit organization looking for help with your graphic design needs? Our senior students provide design services in our Studio Lab at the School of Design at 3 Lower Jarvis St.
For more information, contact Ana Rita Morais at anarita.morais@georgebrown.ca or Lori Endes at lendes@georgebrown.ca.
Managed by faculty, employees and students at George Brown’s School of Design, the IN Store sells a wide range of student-designed products, including home-décor items, tote bags, notebooks, refillable water bottles and more. 
Visit instoregbc.com for more information. 
Want to pamper yourself without breaking the bank? Our School of Makeup and Esthetics provides a wide variety of spa services, including facial and body treatments, waxing, manicures, pedicures, makeup application, medical esthetics and IPL hair removal. Call (416) 415-5000 ext. 4070 to book an appointment. 
See future stars on stage when students in their final year of the Theatre Arts – Performance program present productions, from November to April. Experience unforgettable theatre at affordable prices at the Young Centre for the Performing Arts in Toronto's Historic Distillery District. 
Learn more about upcoming shows.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.