Our Service Robotics Program provides you with an introduction to the service robotics industry and its growth and development. Explore the typical applications of service robots, their impact on organizations and their customers, the current market for them, and future trends. Study the technical aspects of service robot hardware and software so you can assist the user in working with their technical teams. Learn about the challenges and considerations faced in relation to strategic implications, change, and project management. Towards the end of the program, use what you have learned to complete an implementation plan that helps guide the integration of service robotics for a particular organization or industry.
This program has been designed and developed by George Brown College Continuing Education in partnership with GlobalDWS. Learn more about the service robotics industry by listening to our interview with the co-founder and CTO of Global DWS, Rami Wehbe, on the college's Work Shift Podcast: Episode 14.
Employers can typically be found in any industry currently implementing service robotics, including (but not limited to) the financial sector, healthcare, hospitality, education, and transportation.
Once you have completed all the requirements of this program, you can request to receive a certificate of completion using the department contact information on this web page.
This is the recommended completion order:
Looking for corporate training in service robotics? Contact us to arrange for customized training for your organization.
George Brown College is located on the traditional territory of the Mississaugas of the Credit First Nation and other Indigenous peoples who have lived here over time. We are grateful to share this land as treaty people who learn, work and live in the community with each other.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment on the college-wide website.
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.