
All members of the George Brown College’s Community have a right to study, live and work in a safe environment that is free from sexual violence. 
Through the College’s Sexual Harassment and Sexual Violence Policy we support survivors by making information clear and accessible and engaging in a fair complaints process for all parties.
Building and maintaining a culture that promotes consent and respect is a shared responsibility and we all have a role to play in creating this future.
“Sexual violence means any sexual act or act targeting a person’s sexuality, gender identity or gender expression, whether the act is physical or psychological in nature, that is committed, threatened or attempted against a person without the person’s consent, and includes sexual assault, sexual harassment, stalking, indecent exposure, voyeurism and sexual exploitation.”
Sexual violence is never the fault of the survivor.
LEARN MORE ABOUT CONSENT
Leave this page quickly
Sexual Assault & Sexual Violence Response Services Annual Reports
Download Report
Sexual Harassment & Sexual Violence Policy
Read Policy
Review of Sexual Assault & Sexual Violence Policy
Read Review
Contact Us
Submit a Form
If you are unsure about what to do or how to get support, you can speak with the College’s Sexual Violence Response Advisor (SVRA). Regardless of whether you experienced sexual violence on or off campus, recently or a long time ago, the SVRA will:
You will be supported in your choices and decisions without any pressure to follow a specific path.
Sexual Violence Response Advisor416-415-5000 ext. 3450svra@georgebrown.ca
If someone you know has experienced sexual violence:
A report is when a survivor shares information about an incident of sexual violence.
A complaint is when a survivor shares information about an incident of sexual violence with the intention of initiating a formal process.
The decision to report and the decision to make a complaint are separate decisions.
Deciding whether to report and/or make a complaint of sexual violence is the right of the survivor and is something they need to decide for themselves based on their needs, not anyone else’s. It may be helpful to talk about the options before deciding what is best. The Sexual Violence Response Advisor can provide information to help you to make this decision.
Help and support is available at George Brown College and in the Community:
A fundamental part of our commitment to preventing sexual violence is to make education and training available to our community. We provide different depths of training to members of our community, depending on their roles and job functions. Through education, we seek to raise awareness of issues related to sexual violence, consent and bystander intervention in order to foster individual and collection action towards a safe and respectful environment.
Download report
To obtain more information on training and education or to schedule a presentation, please contact svra@georgebrown.ca.
We are committed to maintaining an environment that is free of discrimination and harassment. If you feel you have experienced discrimination or harassment, we have a complaints resolution process in place to help you. Our department is dedicated to engaging in a consistent, transparent process to resolve any complaints that we receive.
The first step in the complaints resolution process is to make an intake appointment. These appointments can be in-person or on the phone.
The purpose of an intake appointment is to give you the opportunity to:
Our department will review your report or complaint and determine how to proceed. We will work with you to come to a resolution and support you with the next steps.
Check this visual representation of the Complaints Resolution Process
If you would like to make an appointment or contact us, please use the form below:
SUBMIT A FORM
We've put together some sexual assault and sexual violence self-help resources. Check them out below:
SUBMIT A FORM
Read Policy
BACK TO HOME
Web browsers are designed to record information about the web pages you’ve accessed. If you are worried about someone knowing that you visited this web page, you can take some steps to reduce the chances that they can look through your computer to find out what websites you have been reading.
It’s important to note:
If you want to proceed with erasing web related information, you generally want to erase two things:
Select the following browsers that you use for information about deleting your history and private browsing.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.