
"We are committed to maintaining a healthy and safe learning, living, social, recreational and working environment. This means maintaining a campus free of discrimination and harassment, and striving to foster an atmosphere of healthy attitudes and behaviours towards sexuality, sex and gender roles."
-George Brown College President Anne Sado
Sexual violence is a broad term used to describe any violence, physical or psychological, carried out by sexual means or by targeting sexuality. It includes sexual assault, sexual harassment, stalking, degrading sexual imagery or communications and cyber harassment.
You can read George Brown College's Sexual Harassment and Sexual Violence Policy for more information.
Sexual activity without consent is sexual assault. Here are some points on consent, courtesy of the Ontario Women's Directorate:
Find a trusted friend or colleague or speak with George Brown College's Sexual Violence Response Advisor, (416) 415-5000 ext. 3450 or diversity@georgebrown.ca.
If you or someone you know has experienced sexual violence, help is available at George Brown College through the Sexual Violence Response Advisor and the Office of Anti-Racism, Equity and Human Rights Services.
In case of emergency, contact Public Safety and Security on campus or dial 911 off campus.
The Draw The Line interactive campaign aims to engage people in a dialogue about sexual violence. The campaign challenges common myths about sexual violence and equips bystanders with information on how to intervene safely and effectively.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.