
George Brown College is pleased to announce that we were the first college, nursing school and simulation centre in Canada to be accredited by the Society for Simulation in Healthcare (SSH) in the area of Teaching/Education.
 
George Brown College's Centre for Health Sciences is committed to providing you with an education that closely mirrors the real world so that you are prepared to do the job right after graduation. 
The Simulation Centre offers over 23,000 square feet of high-tech simulation space that replicates a variety of home, clinic, hospital, and long-term care settings. The Simulation Centre will also provide you with access to innovative technology, a state-of–the–art facility and highly experienced faculty that will position you for success.
Six 12-bed Simulation Practice Labs
Four high-fidelity suites
One Operating Room
The Health eHome – a fully functioning bachelor apartment
Three demonstration kitchens
High and Low Fidelity Mannequins 
George Brown is a leader in simulation education. Our Simulationists are highly qualified and their collective experience represents a critical mass of expertise that is not duplicated anywhere else in Ontario. Our Technologists who support the delivery of simulation are also highly credentialed and experienced and are committed to student success.
Our simulation education programming will provide you with the opportunity to work through a wide range of healthcare scenarios in a variety of settings. Guided by the principles of interprofessional practice, you will learn how to provide quality safe care to infants, children and adults. These experiences will prepare you for future clinical placement and work environments.
As you develop your skills, you will have the chance to learn safely and make mistakes as you go. You will practice on our mannequins that can be programmed to communicate verbally and respond physiologically in much the same way a live patient would. 
You will engage with our live Simulated Participant Program where actors take part in elaborate role plays, simulating clients and patients to mimic interactions that you will encounter in a clinical setting.
You will also have the opportunity to use virtual gaming simulation to promote your learning. We believe this practical learning enhances critical thinking, clinical decision-making, communication and team building skills. 
You will be exposed to and will benefit from our interprofessional approach to teaching and learning. You will gain a valuable understanding of the realities of today's healthcare workplaces so that upon graduation, you will enter hospital rooms, clinical or homecare settings with the skills you need and employers value.
Each year, over 2,000 students get the chance to develop and hone the specialized skills they are learning in high-fidelity simulated learning suites and lab environments. 
As a nursing student, you will gain from this interprofessional approach that promotes collaborative practice. For example, our nursing and dental faculty worked together to develop emergency scenarios in order to assist dental hygiene students in providing care to a client who may develop chest pain or shortness of breath. Nursing students teach American Sign Language (ASL)-English Interpreting students how they create health histories for their patients, while ASL-English interpreting students teach nursing students how to work with interpreters when treating and communicating with Deaf patients. 
No other college in Ontario exposes as many students to as many simulated learning experiences during an academic year, as does George Brown College.
The Simulation Centre is also a research space where industry partners can test products before taking them to market. For example, our Simulation Centre faculty, staff and nursing students partnered with St. Michael's Hospital to conduct research on a cardiac defibrillator monitor. We also collaborated internally to partner with George Brown's Engineering Department to conduct a sleep study using mannequins.
For industry partners interested in booking a tour, or renting our space, please contact Michael Eliadis at Michael.Eliadis@georgebrown.ca or 416-415-5000 ext. 5599.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.