
Nov. 21, 12:00pm – 1:30pm (ET) and Nov. 30, 12:00pm – 1:30pm (ET)
Join us for our Two-Part November IKKS installment with EJ Kwandibens. In this special edition of our IKKS Series, EJ will be sharing his knowledge on Eagle Staff Teachings and how this knowledge is critical to the preservation of Indigenous culture and wisdom. This event not only provides the GBC community with a better understanding of Indigenous knowledge but exposes participants to traditional modalities of teaching.
In his Community Healing Circle, EJ will touch on themes of belonging, acceptance, societal norms, and what healing means on both a personal and community level. This Community Healing Circle also welcomes GBC’s Indigenous counsellor Laraine Hale for a fruitful, meaningful discussion.
One of the goals of the Indigenous Initiatives team is to increase the awareness of Indigenous culture among the students and staff of George Brown College and the surrounding Toronto community. Throughout the year, we host events, workshops and social gatherings to share our cultural knowledge.
We encourage everyone, regardless of ethnicity or religion, to come and learn with us. 
We want to express our gratitude to an Anonymous Sponsor for helping to support the vision for George Brown College’s Indigenous Education Strategy. Your contribution is vital to continuing our important work and we cannot succeed without the generosity of supporters like you. Thank you so much for your interest in partnering with our organization and for being actively engaged in fostering our goals.
Check out past events
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.