
Join us for Food Court Social 2023! We are excited to welcome you to a culinary experience to raise funds for George Brown College’s Augmented Education Program (Aug. Ed.) in support of students with mental health and addiction histories.
Hosted at George Brown College’s Waterfront Campus, guests will be treated to an unforgettable culinary and entertainment experience.
Food Court Social will include:
At last year’s Food Court Social, we shared the stories of two amazing Augmented Education graduates, Nathan Mandel, and Julio Valencia. These stories featured testimonials from the students and their employers highlighting the impact the Augmented Education Program had on their lives.
Augmented Education will benefit from 100% of the net proceeds from Food Court Social. Augmented Education, in partnership with the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH), is an innovative, tuition-free program helping persons with a history of mental illness or addiction overcome barriers to education and training, and helps them prepare for, find and maintain employment.
Here are a couple things these students had to say about the program:
I found out that I had resilience in me. The program allowed me to see that in myself.
– Julio Valencia, Construction Craft Worker Foundations Program Graduate, 2019 
The Augmented Education Program was able to take information that I already had, skills and passions, and then compound them into stuff that I could use in the industry.
- Nathan Mandel, Culinary Skills (Preparatory Training) Graduate, 2021
In addition to our sponsorship opportunities, you can support The Food Court Social by donating to our auction. To learn more and to donate to our auction, please reach out to Samantha at Samantha.Walker@georgebrown.ca.
If you have any questions, please contact Samantha Walker, Events, Communications, & Administration Officer:
416-415-5000, ext. 3005 or  Samantha.Walker@georgebrown.ca
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.