
In October 2021, the Indigenous Initiatives team unveiled a new medallion, featuring a star blanket design created by artist Joseph Sagaj.
In Ojibwe teachings, the star blanket is seven-pointed and carries the seven original clans and the seven grandmother/grandfather teachings. It can represent legends, stories, events, and different perspectives of culture and heritage. A story is told through the star blanket by the reflecting elements of nature and the colours chosen.
The star blanket is symbolic and accompanies its own origin story in many Indigenous communities across Turtle Island. In Anishinaabe culture, the collective understanding is that we are the descendants of the stars and our inherent connection to the stars spans across generations.
To give a blanket is to demonstrate great respect, honour, and admiration for that individual. The giver holds the individual in very high regard, and when the star blanket is placed on the individual, it is wrapping the individual with respect and admiration.
The giver chooses the colours that represent the individual to tell their story, show their personality and reflect their accomplishments. It is used to honour, protect, and celebrate the individual.
Receiving a star blanket brings good dreams, prosperity, and protection.
The star does not only represent the Morning Star but it's also known as the Creator's Eye, therefore when the Creator is with you, covering you, you are forever safe.
“The Balance is also incorporated into the design. The other elements of Earth and Air can be acknowledged in our Mind and Spirit as well in an abstract sense. They are important as all Life Source that sustains All Living Creations. The people joined together in a circle represent all people from all walks of life.  There are the Four Colours of the Four Races and are joined in the Spirit of Peace and in Unity. The gifts of the four directions circle the star represents our worldview which is holistic where all things are connected and is a reference to 'all our relations' that comprise the circle of life, which is not complete without any part of it the circle.”
 
 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.