
Welcome to startGBC Entrepreneur Showcase. GBC has an incredible network of talented entrepreneurs. Read more about them below.
Are you an alumnus of George Brown College? Do you operate your own business? Apply to join the showcase below.
Apply Now
 
Kim Bean
whatsbeenHappening
Certificate Waxing & IPL Hair Removal, 2019
Certificate Business for Estheticians, 2019
Certificate Nail Technician Program, 2019
Certificate Social Media Marketing, 2020
Certificate Cyber Security Management 2023
whatsbeanHappening is an e-commerce brand specializing in beauty, fashion, and sustainable lifestyle products, created by Kim Bean.
Kim Bean is a professional hair & markup artist, nail tech and digital creator (whatsbeanhappening.com) of a beauty, fashion and lifestyle brand (based in North Bay, Ontario, Canada).
Kim offers luxury hair styling, makeup and esthetic services for film, television, weddings and all of life's special occasions.  She also teaches cosmetology, social media marketing, content strategy and brand awareness courses to people of all ages in North America and the United Kingdom.
Always up-to-date with the hottest trends and committed to creating a unique look for each and every client, Kim guarantees you will feel flawless, happy and confident with your customized look and product choices.  
Kim also offers online (and in-person) masterclasses for those wanting to learn how to do their own hair and makeup. 
Advice for other budding entrepreneurs? "Prepare for the job you want. Find the confidence to network and know when to ask for help. If you stay focused and have the right attitude, you will succeed".
Website
LinkedIn
Instagram
 
Joelle Jacqueline
Couler Consulting
Certificate Instruction Adults, Workforce Development & Training, 2015
Couler Consulting is a business development solutions company, with a mission to Build Better Businesses. They partner with their clients to help develop business ideas, establish their business foundation and/or scale up business operations.
Their services range from conducting a business needs assessment to writing the business plan, conducting brainstorming sessions to creating strategic action plans. They also offer low-touch mentorship, up to, full-time functional support and execution.
They apply Project Management methodologies with a focus on the 4Ps: People, Process, Profit and Planet - to bring businesses to life. Their passion is seeing people’s ideas become (successful) realities.
To learn more, visit www.couler.ca and use code "startGBC23"
Advice to other budding entrepreneurs? "The path to, and through, entrepreneurship is different for everyone. Find your tribe and forge your own path. What's the worse that can happen"?
Website
LinkedIn
Instagram
 
Emefa Kuadeyisraella KOBLAFashion Techniques and Design – 2019 Graduate
Launched in 2019 by British-born Ghanaian designer Emefa Kuadey, the women’s ready-to-wear clothing and accessories brand redefines minimalism through structure and bold femininity. israella KOBLA was created for the confident woman with a distinct sense of style. She stands out, effortlessly.
Inspiration for the Toronto-based brand comes from a juxtaposition of the designer’s interests; fashion and a past life as a civil engineer. israella KOBLA pieces highlight an appreciation for architecture and timeless design. Ultimately, the goal is to redefine the way we look at minimalism and modern fashion.
“Get comfortable talking about your business or project – you never know who might be interested or able to help you further your venture.” – Emefa Kuadey
Email: INFO@israellakobla.com
Visit israella KOBLA
Visit israella KOBLA's Instagram
Visit israella KOBLA's Twitter
Ryan BornsteinGround Up ConstructingBuilding Renovation Technology Program, 2008
Ryan is a dynamic entrepreneur who turned his passion into a business by creating a brand that has garnered respect within the industry.
Ground Up Constructing is a full-service contracting firm that provides an innovative and professional approach to planning, designing and building residential or commercial spaces across the Greater Toronto Area. From bathrooms, basements, and kitchens to full home renovations, Ground Up Constructing is there to help. The team of experts at Ground Up Constructing has completed hundreds of projects ranging from home to commercial renovations. Their diverse portfolio of projects and years of experience is strengthened by a solid reputation for quality workmanship, reliability, and competitive pricing. Ryan and his team are equipped and prepared to transform any space.
Mentorship is emerging as one of the most critical elements in workforce development in the trades and technical sector. Ryan can provide practical instruction through clear and collaborative communication and allowing the learner to take the lead in goal setting for their learning.“I would strongly recommend working for a company to learn all the subtleties of operating a business, this way, one can learn and earn while developing the critical skills needed to run a company.” – Ryan Bornstein
Visit Group Up Constructing
Visit Ryan's Linkedin
Betsy CamposUnika SwimwearFashion Techniques and Design, 2016
“Find something you want to do, perfect it – then be the best at it. ” – Betsy Campos
Visit Unika Swimwear
Visit Betsy's Linkedin
Erin GamelinLouis Cifer & Stout Irish PubBusiness-Marketing, 2000
With a passion for and a history in business, hospitality and craft beer, it was a natural evolution to open up my first restaurant. I had a five-year plan to get prepared for our first pub, Stout Irish. Upon opening, we hit our sales and profit targets every year. By the end of year 2, we were already starting to plan the opening of Louis Cifer Brew Works. Within 2 years, we hit that target. Our experience and dedicated planning are what have continued to make our businesses successful and sustainable in this competitive marketplace.25 years in the Restaurant and Hospitality Business.8 years owning, operating and managing Stout Irish Pub.3.5 years owning, operating and managing Louis Cifer Brew Works.Ontario Craft Beer Association awards on numerous beers that we produce.Honours diploma in Business Marketing.2 years as president of American Marketing Awards Chapter for Toronto.Regular Business Program, Hospitality and Tourism and Entrepreneur Program lecturer at George Brown College and Ryerson University.Opening management team member for the original Bier Markt on the Esplanade, Jack Astor's downtown, The Keg on Yonge and EglintonNumerous personal beer awards and regional competition with Oland Brewery.
VISIT LOUIS CIFER​​​​​​
 
Daniel JanetoseFreshmeals
Cereal Entrepreneur.
I have successfully failed at a number of concepts within the hospitality industry to understand business models, market share, cash flow, and each of the segments of a successful business, including forming a business, raising money, recruitment, operations, marketing, sales, procedural development and all things culinary.
Having extensive experience on national television, personal branding and building a lifestyle business is also relevant to my experience.
“Fail fast, work hard and be persistent.” – Daniel Janetos 
Visit Daniel's Linkedin
Visit Daniel's Instagram
 
Navid MomeniJropBachelor of Applied Business in Hospitality and Tourism, 2011
Connect with me to learn more about what I have to offer in the areas of:
“The critical ingredient of being a real entrepreneur is less talking and more doing. It’s as simple as that. So many people have “genius” ideas, but there are a few who decide to do something about them now. Enjoy the process and ignore shortcuts for success. Do that TODAY. The true entrepreneur is a doer, not a talker.” – Navid Momeni 
Visit Salesguru
Visit Navid's Linkedin
Alex Rushdy13AM Games, Inc.Game Design, 2014
Alex is CEO and Creative Director of 13AM Games, one of Toronto’s top independent video game studios. Alex specializes in business development, project management, pitching, and startup strategy.“A business is made of people. If you and your team aren’t happy and healthy, how can you expect your business to be?” – Alex Rushdy
Visit 13AM Games
Visit Alex's Linkedin
Dan PerdueLevel 12Business – Accounting, 1986
Dan Perdue is the President of LEVEL 12, a successful entrepreneur and a leading expert in developing high-performing people. His strategies in management consulting, training and coaching have been successfully utilized by clients such as Google, Facebook, Pepsico, Nestle, The Home Depot and a 2018 Winter Olympian. He is trained and certified in Neuro Associative Conditioning (NAC), which is the science of success conditioning and one of the most powerful strategies for conditioning your mind and emotions to behave in ways that will consistently lead you in the direction of your goals. Dan’s approach is to challenge you…physically, mentally and emotionally while giving you LEVEL 12 strategies & the ongoing support needed to succeed.“Being an entrepreneur is more than just starting a business, it’s a mindset, a passion, and a sense of purpose that drives you!” – Dan Perdue
Visit Level 12
Visit Dan's Linkedin
Javtesh SinghLeav Entrepreneurship Management, 2022
Never forget your items behind! Keep track of your items before leaving home, office or hotel. Never forget items such as earphones, chargers or ID cards behind.
Are you someone who frequently forgets things behind? Would you like to eliminate the stress of remembering things you need to buy from the store and carry during travelling?If that is the case, Leav is designed to help you remember things that are important to you. With Leav, you can create travel essentials checklist, to-do list, shopping list, grocery list, work items list, gym list and daily notes list to carry everything you need with you.
Get Leav: Travel Packing List Maker now! Now on App store.
“Today, there are millions of dreamers per thousand of doers. The world need not the dreamers, nor it demand the doers. It needs the dreamers who are the doers.” – Javtesh Singh
Visit Javtesh
Paul RowanUmbraGraphic Design, 1974
Portfolio review, Entrepreneurship, Design Management, Branding, Design Career counselling.“In disruptive times, there are great opportunities.” – Paul Rowan
Visit Paul's website
Amy SymingtonAmelia EatsCulinary Management Nutrition, 2010Amy Symington, MSc. is a nutrition professor, research associate and plant-based chef at George Brown College in Toronto, Canada. She runs the culinary nutrition programming at Gilda’s Club Greater Toronto, a not-for-profit organization for those touched by cancer and does recipe development and food writing for various publications in Toronto. Amy believes in the evidence-based health and environmental benefits of plant-based diets and is the recent author of The Long Table Cookbook: Plant-based recipes for optimal health.“Never underestimate the power of good nutritious food, a strong moral compass, the ability to listen, sincerity and good old fashioned hard work. These are the building blocks for a successful entrepreneur.” – Amy Symington
Visit Amelia Eats
Visit Amy's Linkedin
Visit Amy's Instagram
Ramkumar ArunamoorthyGDG Cloud TorontoInformation System Business Analysis, 2013
Technology Space:Key Skills:
Professional Associations:
Ram’s Education Background:
Leadership & Professional Achievements:
“Technology for everyone.” – Ramkumar Arunamoorthy​​​​​​
Visit GDG Cloud Toronto
Visit Ramkumar's Linkedin
Karen BarbalatBoundless BarsCulinary Management, 2010Food and Nutrition Management (Post Grad), 2015
Hi! I’m Karen. I am the founder of Boundless Bars As a Certified Red Seal Chef and Nutrition Manager with the CSNM (Canadian Society of Nutrition Management), I’ve honed my culinary, product development, and clinical nutrition skills over the past 15 years at reputable establishments across the Greater Toronto Area. I’m passionate about all things health, and my goal is to facilitate the combination of food, nutrition & ancestral wisdom for people’s total life optimization.
I am also comfortable speaking and consulting on various topics, especially entrepreneurship, with a focus on a growth mindset and implementing tangible strategies to help you reach whatever it is success means to you. “
“The greatest gift you can give to your community is to live up to your full potential. You’ll often find it in entrepreneurship.” – Karen Barbalat
VISIT BOUNDLESS BARS
Diana CoatsworthDiana Coatsworth DesignFashion and Design Techniques, Fashion/Apparel Design, 2015
Specializing in outstanding, sustainable fashion. DCD mixes handmade, preloved, curated vintage & quality, upcycled fabrics to create one-of-a-kind eco-friendly fashion you’ll love for years to come.
“Once you understand that there’s no overnight success or quantum leaps in business; but many, many small & consistent daily steps towards realizing a vision, will you succeed.” – Diana Coatsworth
Visit Diana Coatsworth Design
Visit Diana's Instagram
Visit Diana's Facebook
Janine KwokAUTODesign Management, 2021
AUTO is a community-based approach to healthcare. Addressing those living with chronic illness. Currently, AUTO is a clothing and lifestyle brand raising funds and awareness around the effects of auto-immune disease. Funds raised from sales are donated to charities such as; Lupus Ontario, Diabetes Canada and more.
AUTO is currently in production of becoming a socially charged app that addresses isolation when dealing with chronic illness. AUTO reaches those dealing with similar symptoms and connects them to share information and create lasting relationships.
“Don’t Give Up, Kid!” – Janine Kwok
Visit Auto
Visit Auto's Instagram
Visit Janine's LinkedIn
Tom CordeiroeRenovate
eRenovate is a home-grown Canadian company founded by homeowners who’ve experienced real ‘renovation let-downs’. For that very reason, we’re thrilled to provide peace of mind to those improving their cherished homes with the eRenovate Guarantee.
FACT: Only eRenovate stands behind our Pros, so you’re Protected. Every Pro must pass our strict vetting process to be Bonded by eRenovate™, and only they can offer you the eRenovate Guarantee; $25,000 Deposit Protection and 88-Day Workmanship Guarantee!
You want to hire trustworthy Pros, and they want to be trusted. Today eRenovate proudly connects you to a most trustworthy environment.
Visit eRenovate
Visit eRenovate's Facebook
Visit eRenovate's Instagram
Visit eRenovate's Twitter
Burak OzsoyPass The SyrupCulinary Management, 2018
Pass the Syrup is a dessert shop in Fort York selling handcrafted ice cream and Waffle Pops. We provide our customers with great quality goods. Come check us out for some out-of-the-world sorbets!
“Be determined, work hard and take action.” Burak Ozsoy
Visit Pass the Syrup
Visit Pass the Syrup's Instagram
Beckee KavanaghPaper & PosteGraphic Design, 2008
Paper & Poste is a Toronto-based stationery studio focused primarily on wedding stationery and specializing in letterpress and eye-catching design. Having been in business for eight years, Paper & Poste has become the go-to for high-level clients seeking elevated invitations for their events. Their design expertise and notable style have been sought out by multiple celebrity clients, both wedding & corporate, and are well-trusted by the country’s leading event planners. Paper & Poste has received accolades from a number of publications, winning 2019 Stationer of the Year at the Weddingbells Canadian Wedding Awards, and has been featured in the prestigious WedLuxe Magazine countless times for their contributions to styled shoots and real weddings. Most recently, they appeared on The VIP Collective podcast as stationery experts in their field and will be speaking to planners and photographers at an upcoming Revel Sessions conference regarding the importance of stationery details in the event industry. At Paper & Poste, our small team of 4 continue to push the creative restrictions on the traditional wedding invitation, eager to create innovative designs that strike that elusive balance between timeless and trendy.
“To keep your business relevant and ahead of the curve, you have to continue to explore and introduce new innovations and ideas in your industry that excite your potential clients.” – Beckee Kavanagh
Visit Paper & Poste
Visit Paper & Poste's Instagram
Visit Paper & Poste's Facebook
Visit Paper & Poste's Twitter
Visit Paper & Poste Pinterest
Lilia CostaBrazil HeelsStartGBC Summer Camp, 2019
We are Brazil Heels, your online women’s shoe store! To deliver the unique Brazilian concept of beauty, quality, and fashion, we work with established and reliable Brazilian shoe manufacturers.
“Research about the field you want to work within, study different topics (marketing, finance, sales), network with industry professionals, work hard on your business plan, get mentoring from knowledgeable professionals, avoid procrastination, and work every day to get the work done. Be kind to yourself when you fail in doing something. There will be lots of challenges along the way, so don’t give up when you face them.”- Lilia Costa
Visit Brazil Heels' Facebook
Visit Brazil Heels' Instagram
Monah WaterMajestic Wisdom & Eloquent ExpressionsFashion Exchange – Industrial Power Sewing, 2015
Majestic Wisdom is an African-inspired handcrafted premium lifestyle brand with a creative cultural edge.Eloquent Expressions is a dynamic professional design and communications agency that distinctively crafts and strengthens the brand voice and image of creative, purpose-driven brands and organizations.
“Having vision to see beyond limitations, faith to believe beyond possibilities, and courage to tread beyond what’s familiar has helped me remain driven in entrepreneurship.” – Monah Water
Visit Eloquent Expressions' Facebook
Visit Eloquent Expressions' Instagram
Visit Majestic Wisdom's Facebook
Visit Majestic Wisdom's Instagram
Jeremy WangRibbitAdvanced Machining for U of T Engineering, 2015
The world’s first regional cargo airline with fully autonomous aircraft – better service, better rates, and no pilots.
“A start-up’s only real advantage is speed. So listen to your customer, be reliable, be fast.”- Jeremy Wang
Visit Jeremy's LinkedIn
Visit Jeremy's Site
Visit Ribbit
Urvish PatelOrbit 5 Inc.Computer Programmer Analyst – 2021
Orbit 5 was created to give a positive spin to the way career development is presented to students. We are here to disrupt and change the negative language that is used around all things career. We refuse to tell our students that job searching is daunting. We refuse to tell our students that writing a LinkedIn profile or a resume is tedious. We refuse to tell our students that networking and job interviews are intimidating.
Through our work, our students realize that building their profiles and documents are great opportunities for reflection and self-discovery, that networking is empowering, and that interviewing is fascinating. We are bringing the fun and the good vibes to the career spectrum so you can thrive and shine.
Community of SupportWhen Covid hit, we built a global community of international students based in 4 different continents where every Monday, we gathered around webinars via Zoom to support each other, root for one another, and share our struggles and victories while navigating times of uncertainty. The triumph of one of our members is always a win for the entire community.
Disruptive FunOur students love us because, unlike everyone else, we don’t make them fear the job search, and we don’t use negative adjectives to describe the experience. The work they do with us makes them see the process as a fun opportunity that leads to self-discovery, growth, and skill set upgrade by exposing them to actionable tips they implement to thrive in their endeavours.
Exponential TransformationNothing brings us more joy than seeing the transformation that our students experience when taking part in our programs. They go from lost and confused to confident and laser-focused! Our students increase their self-awareness and embrace the best elements from their upbringing and culture and make them play to their advantage to stand out and add value to the places they work at.
“Empowered people make other people empowered” – Urvish Patel
Email: connect@orbit5.ca
Visit Orbit 5
Visit Orbit 5's Instagram
Visit Orbit 5's LinkedIn
Halley Requena-SilvaHRS Photography, Productions in the 6ixBusiness Administration 2010, Digital Photography 2016
We are a Media based company in Toronto, Canada. We love to capture milestone moments and tell your story. The love we have for our home city inspires our work. We have also travelled internationally, capturing daily life, milestone moments, events and newborn photography & videography.
“Sky is the limit” – Halley Requena-Silva
Email HRS Photography: info@hrsphotography.ca
Email Productions in the 6ix: CEO@productionsinthe6ix.com
Visit HRS Photography
Visit HRS Photography's Instagram
Visit HRS Photography's Facebook
Visit Productions in the 6ix
Visit Productions in the 6ix Instagram
Visit Productions in the 6ix Facebook
Maryanne McMullen, Founder and CEOThe Next Music GenerationPsychology Program 2021
The Next Music Generation (TMNG) Entertainment brand allows you to showcase your musical talent and prowess. It is no news that The Next Music Generation (TNMG) aims to serve as a stepping stone for the upcoming talented artists all around the world, seeking to showcase what they are made of, in other words, their musical talent. The Next Music Generation (TMNG) allows talented artists to work with the best musical crews ranging from music producers, DJs and other great minds in the artistic fields, to groom your musical talents to become the best in The Next Music Generation Band.
Be open to learning, pivot with the times, never be afraid to fail and seek advice if you don’t understand something. Always remember the proverbial phrase, “when life gives you lemons, make lemonade.”
Email: info@thenextmusicgeneration.com
Visit The Next Music Generation's Facebook
Visit The Next Music Generation's Instagram
Visit The Next Music Generation's Twitter
Visit The Next Music Generation's LinkedIn
Benjamin Redhill-SimardOf The HillsFashion Management, 2021
Of The Hills is a brand dedicated to giving you a taste of Toronto, using iconic scenes of the City printed on his pieces. The brand’s vision is to create streetwear for everywhere, creating a seamless experience with what you wear and how you choose to wear it. Designed and run in Toronto by Ben Redhill-Simard, Of The Hills Clothing creates streetwear for everywhere. Ben’s current collections draw from the streets of Toronto and beyond, bringing the colours and the pulse of the city to life in affordable fashion.
“Be patient and accept failure as a lesson, not a result.” – Benjamin Redhill-Simard
Visit Of the Hills
Deborah KingGlobal Measure IncSustainable Fashion Production, 2020
Global Measure is a social enterprise focused on connecting sustainable and ethical fashion brands with consumers. We help measure, validate and certify responsible fashion, giving bragging rights to responsible brands and purchases. Our ‘Brand Search’ portal helps consumers quickly find sustainable brands and validate the authenticity of certified product.
“Stop being your own biggest obstacle. The world is waiting for your passion and creativity!” – Deborah King
Visit Global Measure
Visit Global Measure's Instagram
Visit Global Measure's LinkedIn
Chris PalivanToronto Cider FestivalSpecial Events Planning Diploma, 2014
Chris is the Co-Founder and an Executive Director at the Toronto Cider Festival, responsible for business and partnership development, strategic planning, and operational execution. Having started his hospitality career as an immigrant and a humble dishwasher eager to grow, Chris’ appetite for having an impact on the world has led him to experience a meteoric rise in his ability to contribute to areas that matter most to him. This has led him to collaborate with some of the world’s most prolific events, such as TIFF, the Pan Am Games and the Commonwealth Games, all while continuing his entrepreneurial endeavours. As a family man, adventurer and world traveller, Chris’ commitment to living a life of purpose and contribution are seen through his leadership and influence in the Toronto Cider Festival.
Chris’ desire to uplift the communities that he is involved in can be best seen in his commitment to empowering future generations. This has been shown through his philanthropic endeavours, various mentorship and speaking engagements, the Event Management George Brown College Scholarship he established, and the countless of students, volunteers and interns he has welcomed under his leadership.
Chris continues to provide support and guidance for anyone who seeks his counsel on how to overcome obstacles, build on ideas, and bring value to the world. As a serial entrepreneur in the hospitality, events and tourism sector, Chris is a beacon of light for anyone who seeks to be empowered in their journey.“There is no greater purpose in life than to live a life of meaning and contribution. When you align your purpose with service, your business becomes an incredible vehicle to deliver that which you want to have. Lead with the heart, and execute with the mind is the recipe for success” – Chris Palivan
Visit Toronto Cider Festival
Visit Chris' Linkedin
Marina StathakisDamaged In DarknessDigital Media Marketing, 2021
At Damaged in Darkness, we bridge the gap between the digital world, mental health awareness and human connection, with the overall intention of making a positive social impact.
“The biggest advice I would give to aspiring entrepreneurs is just try something because you never know if you don’t try. I think it’s important to trust in yourself and your vision. In the beginning, sometimes people won’t understand your vision, you might feel alone, or you might question your own idea. Always trust yourself, and rely on people that support you and give you proper constructive criticism. It might be scary at first, but discomfort is where true growth happens.” – Marina Stathakis
Visit Damaged in Darkness' Instagram
Visit Damaged in Darkness' Facebook
Luis PadillaSupramorphousFashion Techniques and Design, 2017
Supramorphous is an inclusive fashion label created in 2017.Made with sustainable practices and natural fibres of the highest quality textiles. Designed by a forward-thinking duo, Ana Carpio and Luis Padilla, fusion product and fashion design.
The brand seeks to create a connection between nature and the human being that is constantly evolving through the aesthetics of design that is expressed in each collection. The brand’s collections aim to break stereotypes that shape more open-minded persons who enjoy being part of modern society.”
“Your future is now; create with values and evolve.”- Luis Padilla
Email: hello@supramorphous.com
Visit Supramorphous
Visit Supramorphous's Instagram
Visit Luis Padilla's LinkedIn
Alberto RichardsNothing Fancy BarSmall Business and Entrepreneurship, 2018
Nothing Fancy is an established Bar that aims to build community by providing drinks that bring people together and an atmosphere that is a hub for local entertainment. Our approach to delivering only the finest service to our customers starts and ends with our constant desire to exceed expectations. Join us to see what we’re all about.
“It’s difficult to go alone. Support can make or break any enterprise, big or small. Look to surround yourself with the best team you can.” – Alberto Richards
Email: nothingfancybar@gmail.com
Visit Nothing Fancy
Aisha AddoPower To Girls FoundationBusiness Administration Accounting, 2013
We motivate, educate and inspire black and marginalized girls to become young women of power.“Feel the fear and do it anyway!” – Aisha Addo
Visit Power to Girls' Facebook
Visit Power to Girls' Instagram
Visit Power to Girls' Twitter
Visit Power to Girls
Nicolas Castaneda CordobaZero SportsComputer Programming & Analysis, 2024
A sports solution geared to helping improve, connect and organize teams. Our solutions allow teams to focus on bettering their players and organization.
“Never stop believing in your ideas.” – Nicolas Castaneda Cordoba
Visit Zero Sports
Visit Zero Sports' Instagram
Mike SwanMy References CanadaHVAC Apprenticeship, 2016
The standard for employment references in Canada. We make it easy and convenient to request, view and send references online. We believe that everyone should be able to keep the credit for their work ethic wherever they go.
“There are only two ways of life. Living the dream or fighting for the dream.” – Mike Swan
Visit My References Canada
Visit Mike's LinkedIn
Suzanne Cruddenflux + form
Flux + form is three intuitive designers working in a warm, inviting space and creating jewelry that shares our art and celebrates our client’s stories.
“My quote about entrepreneurship is to always do it your way. It’s good to take advice, of course, but there’s no magic path to success. Anyone who tells you there is a magic plan is trying to sell you something. Everyone will succeed in their own way”- Suzanne Crudden
Stephanie ReyesKaramelstyleFashion Management, 2022
Karamel Style is a brand of creative, handmade accessories. We focus on creating high-quality products and colourful designs. Our accessories are mainly made of fabrics such as satin, linen and organza that we acquire from different cities in Mexico. With our accessories, women can fix their hair, complete their outfits and, above all, feel beautiful.
“Believe in yourself and trust that you can do it. Don’t be afraid to show the world the ideas you have.” – Stephanie Reyes
Visit Karamelstyle's Instagram
Visit Karamelstyle's Facebook
Stephanie DuongRoselle DessertsBaking & Pastry Arts, 2011
Roselle Desserts is a French-inspired dessert shop operating in Toronto since 2015. We specialize in cakes, cookies, croissants, and confections.
“Go confidently in the direction of your dreams.” – Stephanie Duong
Visit Roselle Desserts
Visit Roselle Desserts' Instagram
Zhorrah GrantFounder & CEO, Hair Granted Beauty SupplyDiploma in Child and Youth Care – 2019 Graduate
Established in 2020, Hair Granted Beauty Supply is the largest black-owned store of its kind. Stocking a vast inventory of hair products, raw hair, wigs and cosmetics, Hair Granted Beauty Supply is resetting the benchmark in customer service and satisfaction.
My one piece of advice to aspiring entrepreneurs is PLAN! PLAN! PLAN! Always write down EVERYTHING! Every idea, every thought, everything you want to accomplish. WRITE IT DOWN!! By starting a journal or a book where you can just write down your thoughts. You are doing two things, 1. You are starting to work towards your dream. 2. You are manifesting your dream. The power of the pen is a weapon like no other. Writing down your thoughts and plans can make you see things so much clearer.
Email: info@hairgranted.com
Visit Hair Granted
Visit Hair Granted's Instagram
Visit Hair Granted's Facebook
 
Lizelle TucciA Mindful Collective & LIZELLE MARPA TUCCIRegistered Dental Hygienist, 1996
A Mindful CollectiveFounded by Janelle Marpa of House of Marpa, Lizelle Marpa Tucci, author and wellness educator (IG) @l.marpatucci.author, Kiki Athanas of MEbyKiki, and Ashley Parker of The Kindness Practice; we are four mindful entrepreneurs who crossed paths in our shared passion for mindfulness as a way to navigate the stressful and overwhelming demands of everyday life. Our goal; get you curious AF about mindfulness. We swear by the practice because it has CHANGED our lives, and now we’re ready to show you how YOU can use it to slowly transform the way you think and the way you live – all for the better!
With mindfulness at the heart of all we do, we provide education in a supportive space to begin and/or enrich an existing mindfulness practice. Our vision is to build a community of mindful mavens to support each other in the mission to live more mindfully, bringing meditation, positivity, manifestation and self-kindness into the mainstream through premium-curated experiences we know you will love.
Lizelle Marpa TucciLizelle is a mother of three young boys, and live north of Toronto. She has been a health care educator for over fifteen years and a dedicated lifelong learner.
Lizelle started a doctorate of distance education with Athabasca University and felt overwhelmed with studies, work, and family life. She discovered the stress-reducing benefits of mindfulness and mindfulness meditation, reminding me to pause and take a breath!
She meditates with her sons daily and has noticed how this has reduced their anxiety. She has found that a regular practice allows her to pause, opening the floor to heartfelt conversations with her boys that have improved their resiliency and overall well-being.
This experience inspired her to write and self-publish a children’s bookbased on mindfulness. She hopes that her book will help parents experience the benefits of mindfulness and mindfulness meditation with their child. As a Dental Hygiene practitioner and educator, her discovery and practice of mindfulness and meditation has helped her understand how self-care is key to providing care for patients, managing workplace stress, and personal relationships!
She has a passion for online learning allowing access to education anytime and anywhere! Through her online and blended courses, she hopes to share her knowledge and experience with those who are curious about how mindfulness can impact their personal and professional lives.
“Be of service to others!” – Lizelle Tucci
Visit A Mindful Collective's Instagram
Visit A Mindful Collective's Facebook
 
Justine AppleJustine Apple PhotographyDigital Photography Certification, 2017
Toronto-based photograph services specialized in corporate and social events, family photography, and professional headshots.
“Don’t underestimate the power of connections. When you’re starting out, it’s not only about what you do that’s important, it’s also about who you know and the relationships you build.” – Justine Apple
Visit Justine Apple Photography
Visit Justine Apple Photography's Instagram
Tony NguyenGong Cha DanforthHospitality – Hotel Operations Management, 2020
We deliver the highest quality customizable beverages in the bubble tea industry to all bubble tea lovers and ones who are soon to be! #bobalover​​​Founded in 2006 in Taiwan, Gong Cha, which translates to “tribute tea for the emperor,” opened its doors to introduce Taiwan’s finest products to the bubble tea market. Gong cha’s success in Taiwan launched our stores all over the globe, with customers loving our premium quality tea, products & services.
“Be the best version of yourself, so you can deliver nothing but the best to others.” - Tony Nguyen
Visit Gong Cha
Visit Gong Cha's Instagram
Visit Tony's LinkedIn
Alanna FleischerThe Edible StoryCulinary Arts-Italian & Culinary Management, 2011 & 2012
The Edible Story is a unique hospitality venue that can host events and parties as well as operate a full-service catering company on and off-site. Edible daily business consists of cooking classes, large format catering such as weddings and corporate/in-home deliveries.
Visit The Edible Story
Visit The Edible Story's Instagram
Visit The Edible Story's Facebook
Adam BartmanReedPlumbing Techniques Program, 2012
Co-founded by a 2nd generation plumber, Reed is a start-up based in Toronto, ON, that controls and monitors water systems in commercial properties with IoT technology. Devices and fixtures are inputted into building plumbing systems that detect, conserve, track and shut off water, all remotely on an intuitive cloud dashboard. Operators can shut down riser valves remotely, properly sub-meter their properties and access real-time confirmation of hardware functionality.
“I have always loved technology. When I looked at a building, I saw that both HVAC and fire systems were connected, but the plumbing systems were not. As an entrepreneur, I had a recurring problem with water leaks and had many clients calling me to bring in a plumber + find the source of the leak. Since I had this problem, more often than not, I wanted to find a solution for it. As an entrepreneur, it is very important that you are working with a viable problem in a niche market in order to build working solutions to fix it. This way, you can help people find a solution who are in need. For the plumbing sector, I decided to attempt to fix the problem of catastrophic water leaks my clients were experiencing by building hardware and software to smarten the system up and help with things like high water consumption, leaks, floods, and more.”- Adam Bartman
Visit Reed
Visit Reed's LinkedIn
Will TennysonWillpwrOdds And WinSmall Business Entrepreneurship, 2017
Discover the most exclusive prizes and perks from your favourite or soon-to-be favourite restaurants, shops and businesses. The fun and intuitive game let you zero in on offers to play odds and win instantly.
Simply get the app, and play to win real prizes from local restaurants, shops and businesses. The Odds mobile APP was released in October 2018 on both iOS and Android. Odds is expanding rapidly throughout Markham and Toronto, and over the coming months, Odds plans to quickly expand throughout the GTA and beyond, offering Odds players real prizes and offers from 1000s of local restaurants, shops and businesses.
Visit Will's Website
Visit Will's YouTube
Visit Odds and Win's Instagram
Visit Odds and Win's Facebook
Eleonora CaldatoM&B Hospitality Inc. – operating as MANGIA & BEVI resto-barCulinary Management, 1996
At Mangia & Bevi, the food is simple, fresh and made with honest ingredients – combined just the way they should be. The recipes come straight from Italy so do the ingredients. We also love to support our local Ontario producers and farmers.
“Persevere! You do not need to win every battle.” - Eleonora Caldato
Visit Mangia & Bevi's Yelp
Visit Mangia & Bevi's Instagram
Visit Mangia & Bevi's Facebook
 
Bruce LeeRoselle DessertsChef Training, 2011
Roselle Desserts is a French-inspired dessert shop that has been operating in Toronto since 2015. We specialize in cakes, cookies, and confections.
Visit Roselle Desserts' Instagram
John BakerMobile Arts ProgrammingChild and Youth Care Practitioner, 2018
Mobile Arts Programming (MAP) brings the recording experience to you. Within the comfort of your own community setting, experienced facilitators run music workshops that explore various aspects of songwriting as a way to expand creative capacity and healthy forms of self-expression. Those skills are implemented throughout the workshop resulting in the writing and recording of a song.
Visit Mobile Arts Programming
Visit Mobile Arts Programming's Facebook
Visit Mobile Arts Programming's Instagram
Katherine Cabrera VelasquezEarthfructiferaBusiness Management, 2022
Earthfructifera is a company engaged in the export and import business. We began in 2010 in the country of Ecuador, where we owned banana, red dragon fruit, and baby banana farms. Our main goal is to commercialize fresh, premium-quality products grown in Ecuador and other countries of the region. We also strive to provide the best-personalized customer service there is. Our headquarters are located in the city of Guayaquil, and we have offices in Lima and Miami.
“The most demanding tasks bring the greatest satisfaction.” – Katherine Cabrera Velasquez
Email: info@efructifera.com
Visit Earthfructifera
Visit Earthfructifera's LinkedIn
Brian AlmeidaFind N’ FixBusiness Administration, 2009
Find N’ Fix aims to help retailers become more aware of their brand image, more specifically, their exterior signage. We incentive a team of ‘Finders’ to take pictures of signage that isn’t working properly and then report it back to the company.
“Do something you love; just start today and be grateful.”- Brian Almeida
Quest AtkinsonCOCO XO ChocolateProfessional Chocolatier Certificate, 2019
Quest has always had an inclination toward chocolate. Being caught countless times over the years sneaking away chocolate and giggling, she decided to study this decadent “food of the gods” and earned a Professional Chocolatier Certificate at George Brown. Quest gets intense enjoyment in preparing tasty treats for others to savour. Most of her unique products are the result of happy collaborations with regulars for custom orders. As someone who’s had a lifelong struggle with anxiety and depression, Quest started this business with the hope of creating happy moments for others. So naturally, love is at the core of COCO XO.
“Make these things your non-negotiables: learn the art of self-forgiveness, find a loved one to support and anchor you, have trust in the journey.” – Quest Atkinson
Visit Quest XO Chocolate
Fidel PenaUnderline StudioGraphic Design, 1995
Underline studio takes on a wide range of projects in brand, digital, corporate and marketing communications. Underline’s client list is consciously diverse, ranging from corporate and retail enterprises to media and publishing organizations, to educational and cultural institutions.
“Follow the work, not the money.”- Fidel Pena
Visit Underline Studio
Visit Underline Studio's Facebook
Visit Underline Studio's Instagram
Visit Underline Studio's Twitter
Visit Underline Studio's Vimeo
Maria MendezMilouDigital Media Marketing
Milou: Jewelry for everyday outfits
Welcome to MILOU, a creative space designed to showcase classic statement jewelry pieces made with polymer clay. Accessories for your everyday outfits!
“Start small and dream big.” – Maria Mendez
Visit Milou's Etsy Shop
Visit Milou's Instagram
Janelle MarpaHouse of MarpaFashion Techniques & Design, 2006
The Marpa sisters, born 12 years apart- makers and curators of goods to inspire mindful living and support your mindfulness meditation practice. As a lifestyle brand, they not only create products to support a mindfulness meditation practice, they also intend to spread awareness of the benefits associated with a mindfulness practice through experiential workshops that pair everyday activities with mindfulness practices.
“Be open to opportunities to collaborate with other entrepreneurs to help each other grow.”- Janelle Marpa
Visit House of Marpa's Instagram
Visit House of Marpa's Facebook
Katie WilsonSoul ChocolateProfessional Chocolatier Certificate, 2011
We are bean-to-bar chocolate makers. Our tiny shop in Toronto whips up single-origin chocolate bars and chocolate goods from scratch.
“Business is hard. But the opportunities in front of you are bound by your imagination. So dream big and make it happen!” – Katie Wilson
Visit Soul Chocolate
Visit Soul Chocolate's Facebook
Visit Soul Chocolate's Instagram
Megan ErnstMegan Ernst PhotographyBehavioural Science Technology, 2014
“I am a Wedding, Elopement and Engagement photographer specializing in capturing the real, the raw, the playful, and the intimate. I want to give my clients the opportunity and space to be vulnerable and free together because my best work comes from the freedom of you being themselves. I aim to capture the little touches, the way you play together and the moments of humility that make you fall even deeper in love with your person. Wandering, authentic, sentimental souls are my people.”
“Always keep hustling. A business is not built overnight.”- Megan Ernst
Visit Megan Ernst Photography
Visit Megan Ernst Photography's Instagram
Visit Megan Ernst Photography's Facebook
Darren SampsonNovoMasksDesign & Advertising
We love coming up with creative solutions for custom masks. Unique creations for business, parties, weddings, bar mitzvahs, teams, costumes, special gifts and more!
We use a variety of fabrication methods to make each mask truly unique.
From 1 to 5000 or more – anything is possible!
Visit NovoMasks
Visit NovoMasks' Instagram
Visit NovoMasks' Facebook
Christopher FrazerNow Organic FarmsBusiness Administration, 2019
Now Organic Farms is an organic farm company based out of Ontario, Canada. Our goal is to grow organic healing foods for you and your family that helps to fight disease, promote vibrant health and enjoy the fullness and quality of life you deserve.
“Don’t give up on your dreams, for where there is a will, there is always a way. You just have to find it and work hard towards it.” Christopher Frazer
Visit Now Organic Farms' Instagram
Visit Now Organic Farms' YouTube
Wes GroveMobile Arts ProgrammingChild and Youth Care Practitioner, 2018
Mobile Arts Programming (MAP) brings the recording experience to you. Within the comfort of your own community setting, experienced facilitators run music workshops that explore various aspects of songwriting as a way to expand creative capacity and healthy forms of self-expression. Those skills are implemented throughout the workshop resulting in the writing and recording of a song.
“A lot of time and hard work goes into starting your own business, but there is no better feeling than working for yourself while doing something you are passionate about. The result of passionate work is always success.” – Wes Grove
Visit Mobile Arts Programming
Visit Mobile Arts Programming's Instagram
Visit Mobile Arts Programming's Facebook
Francis LutaPicturehausfilmsAdvertising Graphic Design, 2008
We are filmmakers, storytellers and image makers.
We produce documentaries, dramas, art films and corporate videos. Founded by award-winning filmmakers Francis Luta and Jeremy Benning CSC.
“Know everyone’s role.”- Francis Luta
Visit Francis Luta's IMDB Profile
Salma NadafMOOSE MOONRacePost Graduate Certificate Program in International Fashion Management – 2020
MOOSE MOONRace is an online apparel brand offering cool, casual, sustainable, and gentle clothing for aficionados of pets and woods. The prints of pets, woods, and nature on casual clothing help customers express their personalities and to express love for pets and woods. These clothing are suitable for different occasions like hiking in the woods, workouts, aerobics, and daily life.
“Entrepreneurship is an exciting journey that allows you to follow your passion and to serve society. Be unique, ethical, optimistic, and realistic!“
Email: startwithsalma@gmail.com
Visit MOOSE MOONRace
Visit MOOSE MOONRace's Facebook
Visit MOOSE MOONRace's Instagram
Visit MOOSE MOONRace's Twitter
Visit Salma's LinkedIn
Paige BurchellEmma Paige DesignsFashion Techniques and Design, 2010
Emma Paige Designs is an independent fashion brand specializing in custom bridal wear. All pieces are designed and made by hand in Toronto.
“I didn’t learn from my success but rather from my failures, as every mistake was a lesson learned and a pivot in the right direction. The journey has pushed me to unimaginable lengths, which I am forever grateful for.” - Paige Burchell
Visit Emma Paige Designs' Facebook
Visit Emma Paige Designs' Instagram
Visit Emma Paige Designs' Pinterest
Dymika HarteUNSGNDGraphic Design, 2018
UNSGND is a female-powered one-stop-shop creative agency focused on building brands and creating content for small businesses, recording artists and community initiatives.
“Being an entrepreneur means you get full control of your time, but it also means you decide whether you’re going to make money or not every day”- Dymika Harte
Visit UNSGND
Visit UNSGND's Instagram
Kim DrosdickFlux + Form & Kim Drosdick JewelleryJewellery Arts, 2001
Flux + form is three intuitive designers working in a warm, inviting space and creating jewelry that shares our art and celebrates our client’s stories.
Kim Drosdick Jewellery ‘Do what you love’ is what I always say! I’m one of the lucky ones that get to do that every day. As a graduate of GBC’s Jewelry Arts program, I’m trained to work with almost every material and jewelry request imaginable. I create wearable works of art using ethically sourced and recycled materials. I love being able to reuse clients' existing jewelry to create something new and meaningful for them – I call it Re-Jewel™!
“I think if you are a successful entrepreneur, then you know that it’s the ONLY way to move through life doing what you love.”- Kim Drosdick
Visit Kim Drosdick Jewellery
Visit Kim Drosdick Jewellery's Facebook
Visit Flux + form's Facebook
Nancy LemiNeecee LexySocial Media Marketing, 2019
NEECEE LEXY is named after its CEO & Founder's nickname. It’s a business creative agency and blog based in Toronto. We offer personalized branding strategy and 360 Digital Marketing services, including (SEO Optimization, Google Ads, GMB, Microsoft and Social Media Management).
What makes Neecee Lexy exclusive – the company operates as a global publication that covers feature stories of business owners, entrepreneurs, influential figures, and artists since 217. It releases weekly feature articles and Podcasts which focus on sharing stories of outstanding entrepreneurs that are impacting today’s social media, music industry, fashion, and entertainment lifestyle. Moreover, covering stories of young upcoming or established CEOs every Thursday morning on our website www.neeceelexy.com/blog. There you will find hundreds of personal stories of entrepreneurs and how they started their businesses.
Furthermore, Neecee Lexy teaches aspiring entrepreneurs and small to medium businesses Digital marketing tactics and branding via videocast on YouTube: www.neeceelexy.com/youtube
“Believe in your creativity because that’s your greatest power.” – Nancy Lemi
Visit Neecee Lexy
Visit Neece Lexy's Instagram
Visit Neece Lexy's LinkedIn
Adunni RufaiAADÙN
AADÙN is a sustainable brand that upcycles and repurposes traditional African Handwoven fabric.
Aso òkè is considered an artifact and is often passed down from generation to generation as a family heirloom. They stand the test of time because they are quality fabrics traditionally handwoven on a loom made out of original cotton. However, as more ceremonies are being held, and different aso òkè adornments are being worn to each of them, they end up taking up space in our closets as we all keep buying new ones for the next ceremony. Consequently, over the years, we amass bags and bags of aso òkè sitting idle, collecting dust or worse, ending up in a landfill.
AADÙN is tackling waste by collecting these high-quality fabrics that were previously owned and repurposing them into timeless handcrafted pieces for everyday use. Thereby contributing to the circular economy and a more sustainable environment.
“Getting started is more important than being right.” – Adunni Rufai
Visit AADÙN
Philip Vadley Edward CorreyaPumpkin KartAnalytics For Business Decision Making Program, 2016
We are Toronto’s own, Ethnic Food and Grocery Delivery service, currently catering to the South Asian and Middle-Eastern communities in Canada.
“Dreaming big and being resilient can pave your path to be a successful entrepreneur.” –Philip Vadley Edward Correya
Visit Pumpkin Cart
Visit Pumpkin Cart's Instagram
Samantha McAdamsSamantha McAdams JewelleryJewellery Methods, 2016
Inspired by all things antique, Samantha is influenced by the tradition and sentiment of heirloom jewellery. Her work demonstrates an appreciation for the fine details found in classical techniques and high-quality craftsmanship. Samantha is passionate about the custom jewellery process and working one-on-one with her clients to fully execute their vision. She takes pride in personally connecting with new people to create pieces that can be a part of their families for generations to come.
“Explore your industry. Work for established entrepreneurs and soak it all in. Take this knowledge and find out where you see yourself and go there!” – Samantha McAdams
Visit Samantha's LinkedIn
Visit Samantha McAdams' Facebook
Visit Samantha McAdams' Instagram
Visit Samantha McAdams' Pinterest
Jo BeachFounder, cedar and vineApparel Technical Design, Fashion/Apparel, 2018
Cedar & Vine is a luxury linen wear brand located in Weyburn, SK. To us, slow fashion goes hand-in-hand with intentional design, a process that works for good to benefit everything affected by the product. This includes the people who create, model, and market our garments, good ol’ mother earth, and of course, YOU – the end user.
The way we ensure that the entire process is sustainable and ethical is by making each product to order right under our own studio roof, sizes 2xs – 4xl.
Visit cedar and vine's Facebook
Visit cedar and vine's Instagram
Visit cedar and vine's Pinterest
Carey PearsonFlux + formBusiness, 1997
Flux + form is three intuitive designers working in a warm, inviting space and creating jewelry that shares our art and celebrates our client’s stories.
“Being an entrepreneur has allowed me to see so much more possibility with my career. I don’t feel the limits that I did working in a corporate nine-to-five job.”- Carey Pearson
Visit Flux + form
Visit Flux + form's Facebook
Juline SuttonBlack Women UnitedSocial Service Worker, 2021
Our mission is to create safe spaces to educate and empower Black women through strength-based workshops while fostering mental wellness and a positive sense of self.
“Stay consistent, stick to it. The payoff will be rewarding.” – Juline Sutton
Visit Black Women United's Instagram
Josh HyThe DeZinrAdvanced Graphic Design – 2006
Josh Hy aka The Dezinr is a mixed-media digital artist based in Toronto, descended from Jamaica. Specializing in handcrafted Luxury Art in traditional and digital mediums, finished in resin, diamond dust, Swarovski crystals, and 18-24kt gold, mounted on wood.
His work has been shown at various institutions across Canada and the UK
“Rock bottom is a good lesson, the only way you can go is up.”
Visit The DeZinr
Visit The DeZinr's Instagram
Visit The DeZinr's Facebook
Angela Grant BuechnerNutmeg Consulting-Birth Babies & BreastfeedingRegistered Nurse-Perinatal Intensive Care Nursing, 2003
Private practice providing Lactation Consultant home visits, Breastfeeding Prep & Baby care consults, Birth Doula care for ALL kinds of birth, and Postpartum Doula visits for day/night support.
“Using education, creativity and passion, you can create new ways to help others.”- Angela Grant Buechner
Visit Nutmeg Consulting
Visit Nutmeg Consulting's Facebook
Visit Nutmeg Consulting's Instagram
Brian ChengThe Edible StoryCulinary Italian, 2014
Catering and Event Space for cooking classes, weddings, corporate and unique food experiences.
“Patience, build one client at a time.”- Brian Cheng
Visit The Edible Story
Visit The Edible Story's Facebook
Visit The Edible Story's Instagram
VimalGDG Cloud TorontoInformation System Business Analysis, 2019
GDG Cloud Toronto is an Official Chapter of Google. It is a group of Cloud enthusiasts that foster the learning of Google’s Cloud technologies. It started as a local community-ran meetup for cloud aspirants interested in resources and technology from Google.
After scaling up from 2 individuals to 2000 community members in its inception year – 2019, GDG Cloud Toronto is now expanding its horizons towards broader IT Training, Services, and Consulting. This organization was featured in the official Youtube handle for its unmatched success in conducting study jams. Watch it here.
“It is our passion and endurance which makes all the difference. Business knowledge can be learned, and skills can be developed.” – Vimal
Visit GDG Cloud Toronto
Visit GDG Cloud Toronto's Instagram
Lesley HamptonFounder, Fashion Designer, Creative Director of Lesley HamptonFashion Techniques and Design, 2017
Lesley Hampton is a fashion label established in Toronto, Canada, specializing in luxury evening wear and premium After 5 designs. It’s an Indigenous-owned fashion brand focused on mental health awareness, body positivity, and authentic Indigenous representation. The Lesley Hampton brand is known for promoting inclusion and diversity, which represents a broader perception of beauty.
“It is empowering to be your own boss and to make the change you want to see in the world!” – Lesley Hampton
Visit Lesley Hampton
Visit Lesley Hampton's Instagram
Visit Lesley Hampton's Facebook
Visit Lesley Hampton's Twitter
Charisse Mendozaoui matchaFashion Management, 2019
Switch your morning routine by avoiding jitters, crashing and heightening your emotions. Oui Matcha will help you indulge in healthy options in the best way possible. It doesn’t only provide a healthy option; it allows you to start a different conversation.
“No time is the best the time to follow your dreams.” – Charisse Mendoza
Visit Oui Matcha's Facebook
Visit Oui Matcha's Instagram
Doina OncelhEr VOLUTIONAssaulted Women and Children’s Advocate Program – 2002
Based in Toronto, Canada, hEr VOLUTION is the go-to place for youth, particularly young women from underserved communities, to come to in order to advance in 21st Century Skills. We exist to create opportunities for the next generation of women in STEM, connecting them with leaders in the industry for career support. We listen to the needs of the community and that of the STEM industry to better help the next generation of underserved youth, with a focus on young women to enter STEM. “Inspiring girls to embrace STEM careers”
“You can do anything you put your mind to.” – Doina Oncel
Visit hEr VOLUTION
Visit hEr VOLUTION's LinkedIn
Visit hEr VOLUTION's Facebook
Alexandre HerberBoundless BarsCulinary Management, Food & Nutrition Management, 2015
Boundless Bars: Fuel your body naturally. If you love quick and convenient snacking while you’re on the go, Boundless Bars are for you. Health Conscious and Environmentally Sustainable, these nutrition bars will allow you to eat clean, live clean and feel Boundless. Our team of nutrition and culinary experts has carefully curated each ingredient and piece of packaging so you can confidently snack knowing you’re making a difference in the world.
“Your talents and passions will lead you on the right path in life.” – Alexandre Herber
Visit Boundless Bars
Visit Boundless Bars' Instagram
Ashley KwongMemory & CompanyActivation Co-ordinator/Gerontology, 2000
“Memory & Company is a Respite Hotel and Premium Day Program for people living with Memory Loss. Ashley currently has 2 locations in Markham and Oakville, Ontario. Her company is the first of its kind in the world. Memory & Company has been internationally recognized as the future of Memory Care.”
"To accomplish great things, we must not only act but also dream; not only plan but also believe." - Anatol France
Visit Memory & Company
Visit Memory & Company's Facebook
Visit Memory & Company's Twitter
Visit Memory & Company's LinkedIn
Visit Memory & Company's YouTube
Visit Memory & Company's Instagram
Idil AsikRock-A-ToyDigital Media Marketing
Rock-A-Toy: A Mum Owned-Montessori Inspired Boutique Toy Shop
Everything started with becoming a mum; I realized the importance of a toy on child development. Rock-A-Toy sells unique and educational toys. I want to make kids and families happy and fall in love with my products.
“If I can start a business by myself with a small newborn baby during the lockdown, everyone can do it! Trust yourself, whatever the conditions are.” – Idil Asik
Visit Rock-A-Toy's Instagram
Annissa RodriguezLamiaceaeAnalytics for Business Decision Making, 2018
Lamiaceae is an all-natural skincare company! We are devoted to creating natural skincare that is handcrafted locally, with zero chemicals and dyes!
“Commit yourself to personal mastery – Evolve yourself daily!” – Annissa Rodriguez
Visit Lamiaceae's Instagram
Visit Lamiaceae's Facebook
Sarah PowerINLANDFashion Design and Techniques, 2007
INLAND is a shopping community for Canadian designers and for those who celebrate them. A curated marketplace, INLAND showcases slow fashion, accessory, and jewelry brands that are thoughtfully designed and ethically produced. Founded in 2014 by Sarah Power, INLAND has created space – originally through pop-ups and now virtually – to access and shop Canada’s most exciting new designers.
“Chose courage over comfort and be true to the change you want to provoke.” – Sarah Power
Email: info@madeinland.ca
Visit Inland
Visit Inland's Instagram
Visit Inland's Facebook
Visit Inland's Twitter
Visit Inland's LinkedIn
Laura RoppaMeLor Inc.Early Childhood Education, 2009
At MeLor we connect thousands of professionals in childcare professionals to their dream job. We specialize in providing on-call Registered Early Childhood Educators and Assistants to licensed childcare facilities throughout Toronto and the GTA. We have recently extended our services regarding the Covid-19 pandemic to assist families with home-schooling needs. Our Educators now provide virtual learning support from the comfort and safety of their own homes. We also offer a variety of interactive workshops for Child care centers and other childhood educational institutions.
“Get comfortable with being uncomfortable!” – Laura Roppa
Visit MeLor
Visit MeLor's Instagram
Visit MeLor's LinkedIn
Nikole GoncalvesHealth Nut NutritionBusiness Administration-Marketing, 2011
Nikole Goncalves is passionate about food and nutrition. Her YouTube channel HealthNut Nutrition has videos on food, lifestyle, and wellness. She has over 600,000 subscribers, who she calls the HealthNut Fam. She has also released her first-ever cookbook, The HealthNut Cookbook.
Visit HealthNut Nutrition
Visit HealthNut Nutrition's Facebook
Visit HealthNut Nutrition's Instagram
Visit HealthNut Nutrition's YouTube
Caylan McMullanBriConnectCommunity Worker, 2015
BriConnect organizes learning opportunities for front-line workers to serve the Deaf community better. We provide immersive multi-day workshops which are adaptable to your working environments. This is a unique opportunity to learn while immersed in a Deaf environment and to utilize your skills as you are learning them in the workshops. Our workshops also give a chance to work closely with interpreters and familiarize yourself with the process of communication with a Deaf person while an interpreter is present.
“Accessibility for your staff and clients/customers is an asset and benefit to you, not a hindrance.”- Caylan McMullan
Visit BriConnect
Visit BriConnect's Facebook
Lucas Takashi13AM GamesGame Programming, 2014
13AM Games is a game development studio based in Toronto, known for creating high-quality action and multiplayer titles.
“Be ready to make sacrifices, but make sure to enjoy the ride, everything will pay off.” – Lucas Takashi
Mutiat OlaniyanMay9Fashion Design and Techniques, 2019
My name is Mutiat Olaniyan and I am excited to welcome you to this Amazing Community of Modesty! This, for me, is a dream come true. The ability to create a brand for myself and other women and men alike who desire modesty in clothing and Fashion.
My husband and I had this dream of having a modest Fashion brand for years, but as it turned out, it only came to fruition when he passed on, on May 9, 2017. May9 Canada was officially started on May 9, 2019, in Ontario, Canada. I decided to pursue this dream alone, not just for me but for other amazing women out there, in order to demonstrate strength in weakness. May 9, even though it started out as the darkest day of my life, has given me strength and determination like no other. It’s our promise to use the best fabrics to make the most beautiful and elegant designs of modest wears with superior finishing. To deliver only quality service and superb customer relations. We are also a company that gives back to charity for every percentage of profit we make. We are based in Canada and we want to reach out to you anywhere you are in the world. We want to have a very good relationship with you and our community, too, so we welcome your advice, comments and recommendations.
“Entrepreneurship is a test of your patience, resilience and consistency.” – Mutiat Olaniyan
Visit May9's Facebook
Visit Mutiat's Instagram
Sarah DougallMade You Look JewelleryJewellery Arts, 2001
Sarah’s company represents over 100 Canadian jewelry designers, 20 of whom create their work on-site in our state-of-the-art jewelry studio.
“Entrepreneurship is about recognizing a need, seeing an opportunity and being brave enough to do something about it.”- Sarah Dougall
Visit Made You Look
Visit Made You Look's Instagram
Visit Made You Look's Facebook
Are you an alumnus of George Brown College?Do you operate your own business? Apply to join the showcase below.
Apply now
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.