The COVID-19 pandemic has drastically changed how we live and learn, and we’ve responded with a quick shift to remote learning and virtual student supports.
Student services, supports and social efforts will be there for you too with the same energy just a different delivery! We understand this isn’t the way many of you imagined your back-to-school experience would roll out, but even though you won’t be on campus we’ve got your back.
Being at home during this uncertain time can be difficult, here are some ideas and tips to help manage an important area of health & wellness – your Physical Health.
Physical health is the condition of your body, taking into consideration everything from the absence of disease to your fitness level. Key areas of physical health include physical activity, nutrition and diet, medical self-care, rest and sleep.
 
If you are regularly physically active, you may manage your weight better, have lower blood pressure, have stronger bones and joints, and overall simply feel better!
 
A healthy body can also lead to a healthier state of mind. Exercise may block negative thoughts or distract you from daily worries, exercising with others adhering to physical distancing guidelines provides an opportunity for increased social contact, and increased fitness may lift your mood and improve your sleep patterns.






Fitness Challenge 




Can't Use Weights? 




Lower Body Stretch 




31 Day Core Challenge 





 






Dara 




Kimchan 




Lara 





  
Make sure to tune in to our Instagram account @GBCRecreation for LIVE weekly 45-minute fitness classes the entire Winter semester. Let’s come together and stay active with our amazing fitness instructors.


 
Schedule
• Mondays - 12pm Tabata Cardio with Kimchan
This is a full-body interval training program that burns the maximum number of calories. It is suitable for people with a moderate fitness level and incorporates exercises such as high knees, march twists, uppercuts and knee-to-elbows. You don’t need to have any prior experience in martial arts to join in.
• Tuesdays - 10am Yoga with Dara
Flowing the body from one posture to the next, linking both the breath with the body, meditation in motion.  This class will increase your energy, calm your mind, strengthen your body and will leave you feeling stronger while releasing stress and fatigue. Flow Yoga promotes whole-body awareness. 
• Fridays - 11am HIIT with Lara (High Intensity Interval Training)
Push your body to the limit! Give all-out 100% effort through quick intense bursts of exercise followed by short recovery periods. This class will keep your heart rate up, which burns more fat in less time.
 

 Being healthy isn’t about just your physical health. Your mental, nutritional and social health are all equally important. Check out the George Brown Staying Healthy at Home main page for more tips and college resources on how to navigate in your new remote learning environment. 
To stay informed and up to date on everything George Brown College is doing to support current and prospective students during COVID-19, visit the College's COVID-19 Information Page. 







George Brown College Athletics & Recreation


200 King Street East Toronto, Ontario M5A 3W8 416-415-5000 Ext. 3336

200 King Street East Toronto, Ontario M5A 3W8 416-415-5000 Ext. 3336

Privacy Policy
