
Being at home during this uncertain time can be difficult, here are some ideas and tips to help manage your PHYSICAL Health, NUTRITIONAL Health, SOCIAL Health, and MENTAL Health from our service area experts at the college.
Athletics & Recreation is offering, fun stay-at-home workouts, daily challenges, online fitness classes, PDF downloads on healthy activities, hydration and more.
Physical health is the condition of your body, taking into consideration everything from the absence of disease to your fitness level. Key areas of physical health include physical activity, nutrition and diet, medical self care, rest and sleep.If you are regularly physically active, you may manage your weight better, have lower blood pressure, have stronger bones and joints, and overall simply feel better!
A healthy body can also lead to a healthier state of mind. Exercise may block negative thoughts or distract you from daily worries, exercising with others provides an opportunity for increased social contact, and increased fitness may lift your mood and improve your sleep patterns.
Try some free apps like: Headspace for meditation, Nike Training Club for workouts and fitness plans, and Down Dog for yoga. There are many out there, so take a look and give one a try.
To find out more information on Physical Health follow us on Instagram @gbcrecreation or check out our Staying Healthy at Home web page.
Stay connected and follow us on Instagram @gbcrecreation, or visit our Athletics & Recreation Website for more info.
PeerConnect and the Food Innovation & Research Studio (FIRSt) are sharing healthy eating, cooking, cooking with leftovers, emergency food tips, and more!
 
George Brown Student Life, Black Student Success Network (BSSN), PeerConnect and Athletics & Recreation have several ways to keep students socially engaged during these self-isolation periods. Just because you may be home by yourself, does not mean you are alone!
Social health can be described as a person's level of support from, and interaction with, people and institutions around them – like the George Brown College community! Having a strong social network can be associated with positive mental health and well-being.
Social environments affect the mental health of an individual. Being socially healthy can help you strengthen your communication skills, build healthy and meaningful relationships, create support systems and give a feeling of belonging and purpose.
Try some Free Apps to stay virtually connected:
Stay Connected with us!
PeerConnect, Counselling & Student Wellbeing, and Accessible Learning Services are all providing support resources to students to help maintain positive mental health.
For questions, email the Welcome Desk at letstalk@georgebrown.ca. For new students, please register by contacting Accessibility Learning Services at alsregister@georgebrown.ca
Students who are already registered can contact their Accessibility Consultants by email directly.If you have not registered and would like more information, please Connect With Us!.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.