
As Vice-President, Digital Transformation and Chief Information Officer, Steve Camacho leads George Brown College’s Technology Division and is responsible for technology, digitalization, and cybersecurity. As a member of the college’s Corporate Management Committee, Steve plays a key role in preparing the college for the future and helping drive many strategic priorities forward. 
Steve is a highly skilled executive, thought leader, and passionate advocate for using technology to deliver positive experiences for students and faculty. Before joining George Brown, Steve was Executive Superintendent of Technology, Data, and Strategic Transformation at the Toronto Catholic District School Board (TCDSB), one of the largest school systems in Canada. In this position, Steve was responsible for advancing the role of technology across the district and provided executive leadership for several strategic initiatives. During Steve’s time at the TCDSB, he also held various executive positions outside the technology function, including Superintendent of Virtual Learning, Chief Financial Officer, and Associate Director (SVP) of Business, Facilities, and Community Development, helping lead the TCDSB through the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Prior to TCDSB, Steve held several progressively senior roles at Humber College, including Director, Technology Services, where he was responsible for modernizing the technology infrastructure and classrooms during a period of significant growth. At Humber College, Steve also chaired the Academic and Educational Technology Committee and helped the college implement its first Risk Management Framework.  
From his higher education to his career development, Steve has been connected to the Ontario post-secondary system. Steve earned Master of Business Administration (MBA) degrees from both Queen’s University and Cornell University. He also holds a Bachelor of Commerce in IT Management from Toronto Metropolitan University and a Certificate in Project Management from the University of Toronto and is a graduate of Seneca College with an Advanced Diploma in Computer Programming and Analysis.  
Steve was born and raised in Toronto, where he lives with his wife and two sons. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.