
The Strategic Planning and Institutional Analysis team provides advice on emerging issues and opportunities to guide the development of transformative strategies, integrated and aligned plans for the organization, driving better decisions and results.  The department strives to provide high quality insights, strategic analysis, planning and project management through three core functional areas: institutional research and planning, strategic and operational planning, and strategic project portfolio management. 
We work collaboratively with teams across the college and with industry experts to facilitate strategic thinking, help shape plans and support decision making. Please reach out to us with questions, ideas, or projects about any of our focus areas, below. 
To view our Strategy 2022/Vision 2030, please visit our Imagining Possibilities page. 
For access to Annual Reports please visit Annual Reports | George Brown College. 
Feel free to contact us at strategy@georgebrown.ca, or contact any of our team members directly:
Strategic Planning and Institutional AnalysisPaul Armstrong, Associate Vice President, Strategy, Planning and Risk, paul.armstrong@georgebrown.ca
Institutional Research and PlanningSuzanne Dwyer, Director, Institutional Research and Planning, sdwyer@georgebrown.ca 
Strategic and Operational PlanningAkrivi Papadaki, Senior Manager, Strategic and Operational Planning, akrivi.papadaki@georgebrown.ca
Strategic Intelligence and ForesightDijana Praskac, Senior Manager, Strategic Intelligence and Foresight, dijana.praskac@georgebrown.ca
Strategic Project PortfolioSam Bremner, Strategic Advisor & Portfolio Manager, sam.bremner@georgebrown.ca
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.