
The Career Services team is here to work with current students on achieving their career goals. From career-related resources, such as our online job board GBCareers, to individual conversations with an advisor, Career Services is here to help you succeed wherever you may be in your career or academic journey! To learn more about alumni supports and resources, visit the Career Services for Alumni page. 
Networking opportunities, interview practice, your employment rights, career bundles and more! 
Explore various employment opportunities through our online job-posting system and book an appointment to see an advisor.
Submit your resume and cover letter for feedback today and our team of Career Peer Coaches will provide feedback. 
Career Peer Coaches (CPCs) assist current students with basic job search preparation support virtually (via MyCareer) and in-person at the Casa Loma campus - CL 317. CPCs can support with resume and cover letter, provide LinkedIn Profile reviews, and share job search resources. 
Current students and alumni are invited to meet with our team of Career Advisors to discuss overall career goals. For quick job search and career development questions, visit us in person at one of our 3 campus locations for a 15-minute Career Advisor Consultation. For in-depth support, such as exploring and identifying your career interests, job search strategies, interview help, and more, book a 45-minute Virtual 1:1 session with your Career Advisor. Book your appointment on GBCareers.
Attend our workshops and events for expert guidance, covering everything from crafting impactful resumes to mastering networking and effective LinkedIn and job search strategies. Our events offer practical insights designed for every stage of your career.
Being a George Brown graduate has many benefits. Career Services is committed to your career success - you will always have access to 1:1 personalized career coaching with one of our Career Advisors as well as our GBCareers job board, and resources. In addition, as an alumni, you receive additional perks and career-related events offered to you directly from GBC's Alumni Relations team  
Email us at careerservices@georgebrown.ca or drop by one of our locations. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.