
At George Brown College, students participating in the Student Life Volunteer Squad (SLVS) will foster the development of human skills, further your career clarity, and be an active volunteer and member of the George Brown College and global communities.
Volunteering through the Volunteer Squad is a great way to meet people around the college and develop the soft skills employers tell us they value such as Critical Thinking; Self-awareness; Professionalism and Self-Management; Effective Communication; Collaborative Teamwork and Leadership Skills.
To complete the Volunteer Squad program, the pathway is split into journeys:
You can start at any time. Student Life Volunteer Squad is open to all full-time George Brown College Students.
As a result of participating in Journey 1, you will be able to:
As a result of participating in Journey 2, you will be able to:
As a result of participating in Journey 3, you will be able to:
As you finish your studies and graduate, you will embark on a new journey. The skills and knowledge you have gained during your time at the College, will prepare you for your future career.
We are looking for full-time George Brown College students wanting an exceptional experience. To join the Student Life Volunteer Squad and participate in the Volunteer Program, we ask that all members:
You can register for the Student Life Volunteer Squad by completing an online form. By completing the on-line form, you also agree to occasional emails that will include volunteer and job opportunities, as well as social events for students who are part of the Volunteer Squad.
For any further inquiries, please contact Davor Mamuzic at dmamuzic@georgebrown.ca.
Register now
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.