
In fall 2019 we will be launching a new student services initiative at Waterfront Campus to provide a faster and easier way to find answers and information you need.
The Student Success Hub will be located on the ground floor at the Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences. It will offer designated zones with self-serve technology, peer support and professional support. These spaces are designed to ensure you spend more time online doing what you need to do, and less time in line waiting for service.
All supports and services will be housed in a flexible environment that will change to accommodate extra activities during peak times of the year. For example, during the lead-up to midterms or exams, the Student Success Hub will transform to provide tutoring boot camps and wellness seminars. At other times it will host career development seminars, speakers' series, yoga sessions and academic advising group sessions.
Need to book a placement test or a study room? Need a copy of your transcript, or want to register for a class? Visit one of the kiosks to perform these and other tasks.
If you're unable to find the information you need at our self-serve kiosks, peer coaches in our Peer-Help Zone will provide support. The peer coaches will be equipped to connect to other campus service areas in real time to get you the answers and support you need.
In this zone you'll find college employees from our Career Centre and Student Service Centre who can help navigate more complex questions and concerns. At various times throughout the year — particularly through midterms and exam time—you'll find counsellors and Student Life reps in this area, too.
We're responding to the growing popularity of e-texts and online ordering by moving to a pop-up shop at Waterfront Campus during peak periods. You'll be able to order your books online and pick them up at the pop-up.
Campus bookstore website
Class supplies and other items you need throughout the year will be available to purchase from vending machines. You can also expect retail pop-ups around campus.
At this moment, this is a student services initiative that we are launching only at our Waterfront Campus.
The Student Success Hub is open to all George Brown students.
The Student Success Hub is opening this Fall. The service hours will be Monday to Friday, 8:30am to 4:15pm.
Please check back often in the event that we do have schedule changes.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.