
Collecting race-based data is an essential first step toward equity and inclusion so that we know who is here and who isn't. It will allow us to discover barriers and create solutions for students within the GBC Community.
As part of our anti-racism, equity, diversity and inclusion commitments, we continue our actions as outlined in our GBC Anti-Racism Action plan and prioritized in Strategy 2026 - A Roadmap to the Future. Our goal is to build a culture of equity, reconciliation and belonging by creating learning environments that embrace and honour the complex identities of our community. GBC will cultivate a community where all individuals feel represented, accepted, and included.
We know that racial inequities and biases exist and negatively impact people in our communities. By learning more about who is in our community, we can continue to take steps to ensure that our college and our communities are safe and caring spaces for everyone.
Race-based data collection is our next step toward learning more about our community. It helps us create programs, policies and resources that support students and ensure we meet your needs. This is about creating an even better college experience where we all feel like we belong.
All students at GBC can participate. Responding is voluntary. The survey takes just 2 minutes to complete and is accessible on STU-View.
Log into Stu-View and enter the information.
To enter your responses, follow these steps
Step 1. Login to your STU-VIEW account https://stuview.georgebrown.ca/
Step 2. From the STU-VIEW homepage, click on the ‘Personal Information’ header in the top menu.
Step 3. Under the ‘Additional Details’ section, click on the link for Student Demographic Self-Identification. This will bring you to the list of demographic groups for selection.
Step 4. Select from the list provided, check the box and click on ‘save’ to update your demographic information.
Step 5. If you don’t identify with any of groups listed, use the ‘other’ option and enter the name of your demographic identity. Then click ‘save’ to update your information.
We have begun collecting race-based data as it aligns with the actions outlined in our Anti-Racism Action Plan and our Indigenous Education Strategy. Plans are underway to expand this data collection to include other demographics. Your identity is complex and personal, and we understand and respect that; we want to be careful and take it one step at a time. To learn more about demographic data collection, visit the college's Privacy Policy.
This data will allow GBC to understand our full student body better to serve all students. We can best anticipate and meet our students' needs when we know who all our students are.
Anytime! The system allows you to enter your response anytime while a current student at GBC.
Data will not be used for operational purposes.
Responses will never be used to affect any academic evaluation, disciplinary action, or future admissions decisions.
Yes, it is an essential first step towards equity and inclusion to know who is here and who isn't. It helps us discover barriers and create solutions to serve our community members better. The Ontario Human Rights Commission permits the collection of this type of data when it is used to aid the assessment or creation of programs and designed to achieve more significant equity for disadvantaged groups. The college also collects personal information under the authority of the Ontario Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology Act and in accordance with the Ontario Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act.
The college collects personal information for the purposes of administering its statutory objects and powers, programs, and activities and to carry out other services and functions. The college will securely store personal information and use it for such purposes as set out in the George Brown College Notice of Collection.
If you have any questions about the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information at the College, please visit the Privacy Policy page. You may also contact the Privacy Office via email at privacy@georgebrown.ca.
You determine how much information you want to share. Your responses are not anonymous, but the data collection will be kept strictly confidential. Your privacy is important to us. Learn more about how we protect your privacy at GBC
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.