
Six George Brown College students delivered more than 60 hot meals and more than 100 sandwiches to homeless people in Toronto on December 24, in response to the impacts of COVID-19 on vulnerable people in our community.   
These students are part of the student-led Sustainability Squad at the college, a network that aims to bridge the gap between sustainability and student experience through projects that benefit students, the environment, and our local community.    
“When considering the long-term harm caused by COVID-19 here in Toronto, it's important to recognize the disproportionate impact that the pandemic has on low-income residents and other marginalized groups,” said Georgy Pyle, Sustainability Squad President and a student in the Tourism and Hospitality Management Program, whose goal is to pursue a career in sustainable tourism. 
“As we advocate for a more sustainable post-pandemic world, an intersectional perspective is absolutely crucial, and our efforts must reflect a commitment to social justice, to supporting vulnerable communities, and to protecting both the planet and its people. "  
The Sustainability Squad started a GoFundMe campaign to raise funds for this initiative and partnered with Toronto Food Not Bombs, a grassroots organization that has been dedicated to providing food security to the Toronto community since 2016. 
In addition to delivering meals, the students gave out 55 gift bags with gloves, socks, hats and scarves to those in need, and they donated more than $700 to Toronto Food Not Bombs. 
 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.