
Main street buildings provided the inspiration for George Brown College’s annual Gingerbread House and Holiday Mocktail competitions at the Centre for Hospitality and Culinary Arts (CHCA).  
Madeleine Sooklal’s edible version of the Royal Alexandra Theatre on Toronto’s King Street (pictured), complete with tiny show posters and exterior and interior finishes, took home the top honour. The Baking and Pastry Arts Management student also won $2,000.
The top three students in CHCA’s 15th annual gingerbread house competition, held last month, won cash prizes, provided by Dawn Foods, and a Wiley baking book. Students’ work was judged by a panel of industry experts, including Colleen Cross, editor of Bakers Journal, Dufflet Rosenberg of Dufflet Pastries, Joanne Yolles, a former GBC pastry instructor and a judge on Food Network Canada’s Wall of Bakers, and Austin D'Souza of Dawn Foods. 
Cheung Ming Ngai won second prize and $1,000 for his Wong Tai Sin Temple and Thomas Villiger earned bronze and $500 for his tiny take on the Alberta Wheat Pool. Yolanda Buitrago Caicedo won the People’s Choice Award, which came with books and gift certificates, for her sweet vacation home. 
The theme of CHCA’s second-annual mocktail competition was My Mainstreet Yonge Street, which tasked students to shake or stir a beverage inspired by the hospitality business on the strip. The event was sponsored by foodservice equipment supplier Russell-Hendrix and $3,500 worth of cash prizes were awarded to the winning mixes. 
Soumini Agate, an Advanced Wine and Beverage Business Management student (mocktail pictured), tied with Culinary Management student Anabel Ochalefu for first place.  
Event Planning student Pari Keyvani took second place and Food and Beverage Management student Hunter Truong placed third. 
Congratulations to all of the winners! 
Created by Soumini Agate
Created by Annabel Ochalefu
 
Created by Pari Keyvani
Shake and strain.
 
Created by Hunter Truong
 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.