
A compact way to gain meaningful international experience, ranging from 10 days to three weeks, these programs allow you to travel with faculty and peers, visiting different cities and countries gaining a deeper understanding of local culture and an enriching educational experience along the way!
Study abroad courses are combined with learning at George Brown, resulting in the completion of course requirements for your program of study.
If you're a current George Brown student and would like to complete a study tour or course, you can learn about the application process below.
Catersource & The Special Event Conference, Austin, Texas
European Experience Hospitality in The Old World (France & Germany)
NEW: Food Tourism (Taiwan & Vietnam)
Read and complete this detailed application form, which includes submitting a letter of intent, copy of passport photo page, and a Curriculum Advising & Program Planning (CAPP) report, which can be found on your STU-View account.
You are almost there! Submit your completed application (application form, letter of intent, copy of passport photo page, and CAPP report) by the deadline date by emailing: globalmobility@georgebrown.ca
You may pay the deposit via credit card or cheque.
Credit card: submit the Credit Card Authorization Form with your application.
Cheque: Submit your deposit cheque to the International Centre (St. James Campus, 200 King St E). Please include your student ID number and your study abroad program in the memo line.
Deposits are non-refundable unless the program does not meet minimum enrolment numbers.
Depending on the number of applicants, you may be invited to an interview regarding your desire to participate in a study abroad program approximately two weeks after the application deadline. Please review your letter of intent prior to the interview.
The Global Mobility team will contact successful candidates by email. The confirmation will include next steps, which include but are not limited to:
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.