
The George Brown College Student Photo ID card will identify you as a student of the College in order to facilitate the safety, academic integrity and security of the college community and college property and to improve access to college services and facilities.
All full-time students registered in post-secondary programs, including ESL program students, are eligible for the Full-Time student Photo ID card
All Part-time, Continuous Learning Students are eligible for the Con-Ed Student Photo ID card upon payment of the assessed photo ID card fee
All students in Apprentice and other training programs are eligible for the Training Program Student Photo ID card upon payment of the assessed photo ID card fee
Students who are in programs on the campus of Toronto Metropolitan University (Early Childhood Education, Early Childhood Education Consecutive Degree, Early Childhood Assistant) are eligible for the Toronto Metropolitan University/ George Brown College Photo-ID/One Card 
Your Student Photo Identification Card is valid only while you are an active registered student in the college.
You may be required to present your GBC photo ID card in order to access other college facilities and services where ID is required. This may include attendance in class, seminars, workshops and for the writing of tests and exams. 
You are required to present your card when asked by a member of College staff or by Security Officers, so please remember to carry it with you at all times. 
Your card is non-transferable.
Your card must be presented each time resource materials are borrowed/renewed, and when using the Open Access Computers.
Your card bears your name, student identification number, and photograph. As the bearer of the card, you are responsible for all transactions made with this card and agree to return all items borrowed on this card or pay the replacement value for all lost or damaged items, pay fines for overdue materials, and abide by all policies of the College.
The card is valid while you continue to be an active student at George Brown College. You are eligible to receive a new card upon return of expired card.
The card is the property of George Brown College and must be returned to the Photo ID office or the Library Learning Commons upon separation, withdrawal or termination from the College.
A fee will be charged for replacement cards
Print/Copy Value Refund Policy: Upon receipt of a completed refund request form, George Brown College students may now obtain a refund for print/copy balances remaining on their student card. The Library Learning Commons will provide refunds for balances above $3 only. Balances $3 or lower are non-refundable. All refund transactions are subject to a $3 administration fee which will be deducted from the user's print/copy account balance prior to the refund being issued. All refund requests must be submitted in person and may take up to 3 business days to process depending on the time of the request and staff availability. It is recommended that requests be submitted Mon-Fri between 9am-5pm for the most timely completion of a refund request.
The college is not responsible for the loss of cash credits due to careless use, loss, theft, card expiry or termination.
To avoid unauthorized use and responsibility for misuse, including financial liability, you must report lost or stolen cards, as well as changes of address, to the Photo ID Office in your Library Learning Commons. For verification purposes, students will be requested to show a piece of Government-issued photo identification for a replacement card.
The personal information collected to produce your Student ID card is collected under the authority of the Ontario Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology Act, 2002. It is used for the administrative and statistical purposes of George Brown College and its Photo-ID Card program. Your account and personal information will be kept strictly confidential between the Educational Resources Department ID Card Office and George Brown College and its internal business units who require photo-id as a pre-requisite to providing service.
Your Student ID Card photograph may be used to create photo-class lists and to provide identification to access college facilities including gymnasiums, libraries, residences, etc., and to participate in college activities where college photo-ID is required. This may include attendance and participation in class and labs and the writing of exams.
If you are registered in a collaborative program with another educational institution, your photo-id information and picture may be shared with the partner institution for the purpose of producing and administering a photo-ID intended to provide you with access to the facilities and resources of the partner institution.
Disclosure of your Student ID Card photograph and information is otherwise limited to the permitted instances outlined in the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FIPPA) Section 42 which includes, but is not limited to, disclosure to law enforcement and in compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual.
The retention period of the student photo-id record is to be determined.
If you have questions about the collection, use and disclosure of this information, please contact us at the following e-mail cardoffice@georgebrown.ca.
For information on Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy, please contact the Freedom of Information and Privacy Coordinator for the college at 416-415-5000, ext. 4646.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.