
As the Associate Vice-President of Marketing and Communications, Sumi Shanmuganathan is responsible for developing and executing strategic marketing and communication initiatives that raise awareness of George Brown College (GBC) both domestically and internationally. In alignment with GBC's 2026 strategic priorities, Sumi leads efforts to promote the college's innovative programs and drive growth and impact.
With over 20 years of experience in public relations and strategic marketing, she has managed successful campaigns for a variety of clients, including Fortune 500 companies such as Microsoft, startups in various industries, governments, and non-profits like UNHCR and Heart and Stroke Foundation. In addition, Sumi has led or supported initiatives that have won awards from organizations such as IABC, CPRS, CMA, ADCC, Adweek, and Huffington Post for her innovative and effective campaigns.
As the Director of Marketing at George Brown College, she launched the successful Class of Your Own campaign in 2022, highlighting the energy and diversity of the college community. In 2023, Sumi was promoted to Associate Vice-President of Marketing and Communications and continues to lead dynamic and bold recruitment and retention strategies that establish a unique and compelling brand presence for GBC in the market.
Before joining George Brown, Sumi led marketing and communications for UNHCR Canada (United Nations High Commission for Refugees), was the public relations lead for corporate affairs and public sector at Microsoft Canada, a member of the public affairs team at Heart and Stroke Foundation and was a senior advisor to several Cabinet Ministers in the Ontario government. 
As the daughter of a teacher and smallholder farmer, she is a social doer who is keenly interested in advancing innovation to tackle social challenges, supporting more women and BIPOC in leadership. She co-founded and sits on the board of several companies, including an agritech startup and a global marketing and communications consultancy that supports early-stage startups and non-governmental organizations in Canada and the United States.  
Sumi earned a Bachelor of Arts, Honours (BAH) in Political Science from the University of Guelph. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.