
George Brown College is actively preparing the future frontline workers of tomorrow. The college has always provided hands-on experience for the real world. That world is changing, and our students are working hard to meet its increasing demands so they can join the frontline workers our city and country need.
But during these difficult times, our students in the field of healthcare, construction and other frontline areas are struggling financially. Many have lost their part-time jobs, have families to support, and are struggling to cover costs for their tuition and essential needs.
The George Brown College Foundation aims to raise enough funds to create at least 40 scholarships, ranging between $500-$1,000 each, for our future frontline workers for the Fall.  Students who show dedication to their field of study, community involvement and demonstrate financial need will qualify. 
With your kind gift, we can make the education dreams of our future frontline workers a reality and ensure they take their place serving at the forefront of our communities.
100% of your donation will directly go to student scholarships and you will also be issued a charitable tax receipt.
For more information about the Frontline Workers Campaign and about donations in general, please contact:
Gabriella GoutamDevelopment Officer, Annual GivingGeorge Brown College FoundationPhone: 416-415-5000 x3289Fax: 416-415-5011Email: gabriella.goutam@georgebrown.ca 
Thank you for supporting student success at George Brown College.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.