
The world has reacted in horror to reports and images coming out of Ukraine, as a peaceful country was invaded by Putin and the Russian military. We have also seen the impact of this conflict on people in Russia and other parts of Eastern Europe. The George Brown College community includes many students and employees with connections to this region and we have all felt the pain and anxiety they are experiencing. As the crisis continues to unfold, we want to highlight the important work our community is doing to support affected individuals. 
Recognizing that the crisis directly impacts more than 200 GBC international students who come from this region, George Brown’s Student Success team collaborated with academic divisions and other service areas to reach out to affected students and provide meaningful financial, academic and mental health support. 
“The unprovoked and unconscionable attacks by the Russian government on Ukraine have immeasurably impacted students and employees in our community,” says Dr. Chris McGrath, Vice-President of Student Success. “I am once again humbled by the compassion of so many across the college and our Student Association who didn’t blink twice when our students needed help. We are all hopeful for a peaceful resolution very soon.” 
The college allocated an additional $250,000 to the Emergency Bursary Fund to support students facing financial challenges due to the unrest in Ukraine, Russia and Eastern Europe. These funds are helping students cover living expenses (rent, food and transportation) as currency flow between these countries and Canada has come to a virtual halt. If you would like to contribute to this emergency fund, you can make a donation through the George Brown College Foundation.
Additionally, George Brown is providing relief from tuition and fee payment deadlines, deferring payments as required, and waiving fees related to transcripts, diplomas, and international applications. The college is also providing support to prospective students in applying for study permits and, where possible, supporting with application fees.  
All of the above are being offered on a case-by-case basis, depending on student need. The college’s team of International Student Advisors is working closely with students to understand and respond to their unique circumstances. 
Given the extraordinary stress that affected students are facing, the college is granting academic extensions, deferrals, and late withdrawals without academic or financial penalty, on a case-by-case basis.   
Mental health supports are also available, including ongoing access to counselling and group drop-in sessions.  
The George Brown College Student Assocation is also providing vital support to affected students, including information sessions, counselling services for students overseas, the Student Nutrition Access Program (SNAP), and equity and access bursaries.  
If you are a student who needs support at this difficult time, please reach out to your International Student Advisor for assistance. Your George Brown College community is here for you.  
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.