
We are pleased to launch our new e-course, "Doing the Work: An Introduction to Anti-Racism." The course is uniquely GBC - it is different than previous anti-racism learning opportunities as it was made by us for us.
Our entire college community is encouraged to take the time to complete the course. For employees, it can be accessed via Cornerstone, and students can access it on Blackboard. Through this course, we hope to make space for ongoing discussion, enable good faith questions and disagreements, and engage in conversations about the content.
Learn more about the e-course
This primer has been developed to support the George Brown College community as we engage in Anti-Racism practice. This primer uses the five steps of the Take 5 for Anti-Racism. We begin with self-reflect, then educate, rethink, identify and engage.
Explore the Primer
As educators, in order to create truly inclusive learning environments, we must actively commit to being anti-racist. We invite you to review these resources to help you develop an anti-racist classroom.
Learn more about what we're doing to address Anti-Black and Anti-Asian racism at the college.
Over the month of February, we hosted virtual events celebrating Black innovation, Black excellence and Black joy, and explored topics such as education, community, wellness, safety, professional development and alumni success. Black Futures Month may be over, but the work we're doing, the content and the resources continue to live on.
The purpose of this toolkit is to support leaders to start the dialogue, begin to explore their role in creating an anti-racist institution and deepen their understanding of what it means to be an anti-racist leader.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.