
We would like to take this opportunity to remind all George Brown College employees of their obligations under the Ontario Human Rights Code (OHRC), the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA) Integrated Standards, and college policy, specifically as it relates to principles of accommodation and accessible resources, including classroom materials, textbook selection and course packs.
To avoid the use of inaccessible materials that disadvantage our students and present significant obstacles to learning, George Brown College would like to ensure that: (1) everyone is aware of their obligations under current legislation; (2) there are supports in place to facilitate accessible solutions to the current barriers being experienced; and (3) we will work together to ensure there is a coordinated effort to establish and maintain sustainable solutions to these issues going forward.
Under the AODA and the OHRC, as well as in accordance with several GBC policies, the college is required to adhere to accessibility standards and principles when designing, adopting and procuring educational materials and resources for the delivery of course curricula. This includes but is not limited to: textbooks, e-books, course packs, e-learning platforms, online networking and conferencing platforms, interactive and instructive online management systems, audio-visual and multimedia.
The College's AODA Accessibility Policy (revised 2017) and the Captioned Media and e-Text Policy (2006) stipulate that all materials produced or purchased for instructional purposes must be accessible, that all textbooks and course materials used for instructional purposes must be available in an accessible format, and that the Bookstore will only acquire textbooks and course packs that are available in an accessible format.
In response to our obligations under the OHRC and the AODA, Xerox was appointed the single source course pack producer and manager for George Brown College as of March 2018.
Under these policies, each academic division is responsible for:
Academic divisions and their faculty members are also responsible for:
There are several ways the college can support you throughout these processes:
We recognize that all employees have a role in creating an accessible and inclusive college. Please find contact information for key point persons supporting the requirements and workflow for the accessibility of classroom resources below:
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.