
As the George Brown College (GBC) community celebrates the start of 2024, it’s a great time to reflect on everything we accomplished together in 2023. 
Here are select highlights of a fantastic year: 
Receiving millions in research funding served as an amazing way for George Brown College to start 2023! We received a Mitacs Accelerate Umbrella Award valued at $4.5 million that supports 300 paid student research internships over two years. 
Mitacs empowers Canadian innovation through effective partnerships that deliver solutions to our most pressing problems. 
Also in January, GBC ranked among the top 10 Canadian research colleges for 2022. Learn more at georgebrown.ca/research-innovation.
GBC's Vice-President, Academic Eileen De Courcy travelled to Ireland to sign two agreements that will expand international opportunities for our students. We reaffirmed our relationship with Dún Laoghaire Institute of Art, Design and Technology (IADT) and formalized a partnership with South East Technological University (SETU). 
Students, employees and faculty at the Centre for Hospitality and Culinary Arts pulled off an amazing feat in April when they cooked 20,000 meals in just three days to support the Solidarity Kitchen effort. Thousands of portions of pork parmentier (like shepherd’s pie) were delivered to Second Harvest. 
"What our faculty members and students have accomplished is incredible. Preparing meals on this scale and in such a short time provided an important learning opportunity for our students. The teamwork involved in pulling off this mammoth task demonstrated the positive impact our industry can have on the greater community," said Chef Tara Montgomery-Ferguson, Chair of the Chef School at CHCA.   
George Brown College took a big step forward in our efforts to tackle climate change with the launch of the Brookfield Sustainability Institute (BSI) in May.  
BSI is a first-of-its-kind, Ontario college-based centre of excellence to tackle challenges posed by climate change. We partner with businesses, governments, not-for-profit organizations and other institutions to create tangible solutions for building sustainable communities, 
We celebrated the BSI launch with EllisDon President and CEO Geoff Smith, Mattamy Asset Management Inc. Chairman and CEO Peter Gilgan, Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) CEO Dave McKay and EllisDon Chief Strategy Officer and EVP, Infrastructure Services and Technology Jody Becker and other partners and guests. 
GBC students did us all proud at the 2023 Skills Ontario competition, bringing home medals of every colour. Chloe Nguyen (Baking category), Negus King (Culinary Arts category), and Karla Alejandra Estrada Santiago (Restaurant Services category) took home gold medals.  
Darryl Hu won silver (Baking category) and Brad Slaney won bronze (Sheet Metal category). 
We celebrated an exciting new phase of construction at Limberlost Place at a topping-off ceremony in August — an event marking the completion of the building’s structural elements. 
“I want each of you here today to know you have been very much a part of making the structure and innovation possible. It represents a contribution to the college and a legacy to future generations,” GBC President Dr. Gervan Fearon told celebration attendees. “This achievement is your achievement. Each of you can be and should be very proud.” 
Limberlost Place is set to open to students in January 2025.  
GBC hosted Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Barbadian Prime Minister Mia Mottley for a town hall event exploring Canadian-Caribbean relations and how to build a healthier and more prosperous world. 
The PMs discussed issues facing young people, highlighting climate change, the pandemic, global conflicts, inflation and housing affordability and took questions from the audience. 
"We are in a time of change where the decisions we take collectively, that you take as citizens and engaged members of communities, will shape the future we're part of," Trudeau said. "This is a focal point in the world — a moment of significant consequence." 
Our new City is Our Classroom marketing campaign hit broadcast television, online spaces and social media, public transit and other out-of-home placements on October 30. The campaign features members of the GBC community and showcases how we transform classroom learning into real-world success. It also celebrates our downtown Toronto location. 
"When planning the new ad and photography, we wanted to bring our students, employees and spaces to the forefront," said Sumi Shanmuganathan, GBC's Associate Vice-President of Marketing and Communications. "We were thrilled to work with over 50 students, faculty and staff from all the academic centres." 
We released the initial findings of the college’s Housing Task Force, which has been tasked with exploring the problem and proposing innovative solutions. Formed in February 2023, the task force’s research and consultation outlined the scale of the crisis facing GBC community members and why the college needs to take bold steps to address it to attract and retain students and employees. 
We were proud to be named one of Greater Toronto's Top Employers for 2024. This was the eighth straight year we've made the list! 
Exciting developments at Waterfront Campus continued through to the end of 2023 when we announced our joint acquisition of 25 Dockside Drive, or Corus Quay, which is right next door to the Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences. 
The move is part of GBC’s long-term strategic expansion to provide more modern learning space for students, further solidifying our place as Ontario's urban college and an anchor in the growing East Bayfront community. 
The Huskies’ accomplishments make us proud throughout the year. Here are just a few highlights from an impressive showing in 2023: 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.