Canada’s multi-billion-dollar television and film industry has weathered the global pandemic better than many, with world-class film, visual effects, animation and post-production companies employing thousands of talented people across the country.
In fact, Canada has become a destination for many television series commissioned by U.S. networks or subscription video on demand services. One such example is HBO’s The Last of Us series, which was filmed in Alberta during 2021-2022, starring Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey (both of Game of Thrones). The series is the largest film production in Alberta’s history, and one of the biggest in Canada. The first season was shot across the province including in downtown Calgary, the Legislature building in Edmonton, Fort Macleod, Canmore and Mount Royal University. It is just one of many productions that employed hundreds of local cast and crew members in the province.
In central Canada, Toronto’s screen production industry set a record with more than $2.5 billion in direct spending in film, television and digital media productions in 2021. Key productions included Star Trek Discovery, Reacher, as well as Paw Patrol (post-production). Considered home to one of the top five screen-based industries in North America, Toronto has a range of industry connections, services, talent, crew and locations involved in pre-production through to post-production work. In Toronto alone, it is projected more than 10,000 new jobs will be created in the screen industry over the next five years by global market demand and infrastructure expansion in the Toronto area.
To help fuel the talent pipeline, film production schools have grown and continue to thrive in the major hubs that draw productions from around the world, producing award-winning graduates and making Canada a great place to launch a career in the film industry.
From Vancouver to Halifax, Toronto, Montreal and in smaller centres, the movie and TV business employed 231,300 people in 2020-2021 in roles that included everything from special effects and animation to sound editing, camera operation and post-production. In that same period, the total volume of film and television production reached $9.09 billion, generating a GDP of $11.27 billion for the Canadian economy, according to the Motion Picture Association.
For those who want to get into this exciting industry, Canada’s film schools offer a range of opportunities and credentials. From one-year diploma and certificate programs to four-year bachelor’s and master’s degrees, Canada’s leading film schools provide a range of technical programs and filmmaking courses to choose from to prepare you for a career in film production. Film school graduates are also employed in journalism and advertising, where demand for visual storytelling skills is strong. Whether you want to be a sound editor, screenwriter or shoot a cinematic masterpiece, these schools and the industry professionals who teach at them will help you build the knowledge, skills and networks you need to enjoy a career at the epicentre of Canada’s creative economy.
CourseCompare’s annual school rankings are determined using a process that considers several core metrics and principles. Read more about our methodology here.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
About the University of British Columbia
The University of British Columbia is consistently ranked among the top 20 public universities in the world and is recognized as North America’s most international university. UBC’s Vancouver campus is home to a renowned film training program that has produced innovative artists and theatre practices for over 50 years. The program aims to create independent filmmakers with the skills and imagination to contribute to and shape the industry. Film production is hands-on, and students learn by doing. Students learn from more senior students as they work together on student film sets outside of class. Program graduates have had their work screened at film festivals such as Cannes, SXSW, Sundance, the Toronto Film Festival and Hot Docs.
“Things I loved about this program: BC and Vancouver are a mecca for film production and have so many film locations and job opportunities, not only within Canada, but from productions around the world that shoot here. You will be part of a tightly knit group of maybe 20 students who will become great friends. And UBC has a stellar reputation that will help on your resume.  This is a great uni and program for anyone seriously interested in this career.
 ”
What You’ll Learn
This four-year Bachelor of Fine Arts degree program is taught at various locations around the UBC campus, including the NBC Studio — a convertible classroom space featuring a green screen and lighting grid. Courses include Introduction to Motion Picture Directing, Film and Media Production, Motion Picture Sound, Post-Production Techniques, Cinematography and more. Editing rooms have computers with both Final Cut Pro and Premiere software for editing as well as software for other aspects of post-production.
The Film Production program has two accreditation streams: the Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) and a Diploma in Film Production.BFA Film Production students go through four years of concentrated studies compared to three years in the Diploma stream.
Vancouver 
About Toronto Metropolitan University
Located in the centre of Toronto and steps to the city’s entertainment district, Toronto Metropolitan University’s (formerly Ryerson University’s) School of Image Arts in The Creative School faculty, is known for its film school and the ability for students to make connections in the film industry while learning alongside professionals who are embedded in this vital part of Ontario’s and Canada’s economy.
“This is one of the best film schools in Canada. They have great studios that are sponsored by Rogers. The campus is right downtown close to the action of the film industry. I really liked the balance of theory and hands on production in the classroom. You also get to work with analog film and take a study abroad option! ”
What You’ll Learn
The hands-on Image Arts: Film Studies, Bachelor of Fine Arts program provides real-world experience alongside working filmmakers and internship opportunities. Courses include film production, film technology, film theory, writing, directing, producing, cinematography, sound, art direction and editing. In the third year, students can pursue the Integrated Digital option to focus on digital media through specialized production and technical courses.
The Film Studies Program offers a comprehensive academic framework for undergraduate studies in the theory and practice of analogue and digital storytelling, leading to career choices in the Canadian screen industries and to further study at the graduate level. The program emphasizes experiential learning and is designed to nurture personal visions that will contribute to the growth and diversity of Canadian culture and enhance Canada’s presence in international film and video.
There is an optional internship for those interested.
Graduate film studies programs include Documentary Media (Master of Fine Arts), Film & Photo Preservation & Collections Management (Master of Arts), or Communication & Culture (Master of Arts/Ph.D.).
Toronto
About York University School of the Arts
Guided by award-winning professionals with real-world experience, students gain practical experience, explore career options, and build relationships with prospective employers through field placements, internships and the school’s partnerships with creative industries and arts organizations, from Facebook to Canadian Stage.
Small classes (From 25 students in the first year to 10-15 students in the third and fourth years) allow for strong mentoring by our internationally recognized (and continuously productive) faculty. Students learn in facilities such as a 1,500-square-foot soundstage in the Centre for Film and Theatre and a 4,000-square-foot soundstage at the CineSpace studios.
“Instructors are great for the most part and the community here is supportive. Being a university, you will get a good grounding in theory but also practical work opportunities. The 3rd and 4th year workshops are a must for honing your skills and making connections. This is where you get to get hands on and practice the things that will make your own projects stand out. Put 100% into these is my advice and opportunities will come.
 ”
What You’ll Learn
This four-year program in Cinema and Media Arts – Production includes courses in cinematography, editing, and sound alongside studies in the concepts and practices of screenwriting, directing and producing. The program combines in-depth technical instruction with a strong emphasis on the creative aspects of film as a medium of storytelling, social engagement, and self-expression. Students work together in crews on various digital and film formats, utilizing industry-standard production and post-production facilities.
Toronto 
About Humber College
Toronto’s Humber College is the largest in Canada, with approximately 27,000 full-time and 56,000 part-time students. It’s also a favourite of employers, with a 100 per cent satisfaction score according to the latest data from Colleges Ontario.
The college’s north campus is in the north end of Toronto, while the Lakeshore campus is just west of the city on Lake Ontario, with an astonishing view of the downtown core. The smaller Orangeville campus is also home to a tight-knit community of about 200 full-time students.
“This program about much more than learning how to make film. It's about collaboration and storytelling. You will learn writing and liberal arts and business. It's a competitive program and not everyone makes it to graduation. You will be pushed to make films from scratch and have your work critiqued. It won't be good, not at first, but with effort and guidance you will develop a real skill for this. In second year I found my passion for documentary and worked with a small crew of students. Stressful, long hours in the studio basement, but it will make you better. In 3rd year we got bigger budgets, bigger crews and better scripts. Everything just scaled. This is definitely one of the best film programs in Canada and I'm happy to see it on this list!
 ”
What You’ll Learn
Graduates of Humber’s Bachelor of Film and Media Production program, which runs for eight semesters, have practical and theoretical knowledge based on a comprehensive program in direction, picture, sound editing, cinematography, videography and more. Students can also choose the shorter, six-semester Advanced Diploma in Film and Television Production — a more focused but no less rigorous program.
With both programs, industry experts guide how to use and fine-tune the same equipment used on sets worldwide. Students have access to world-class studios and up-to-date editing suites for both video and audio. Classes in writing, lighting, directing, camera operating, and even distribution or exhibition are offered so that students can work on every aspect of a production from start to finish.
Both programs also feature work placement programs, lasting from four to eight weeks (Advanced Diploma) or 14 weeks (Bachelor program). Instructors and students work in tandem to find a placement around the Greater Toronto Area, where students get to work on set, helping with various duties on movie or TV show productions.
Humber graduates’ films regularly get selected at festivals such as TIFF, Hot Docs, and the Montreal World Film Festival.
Toronto
About George Brown College
Located in the heart of downtown Toronto, one of the most important filmmaking hubs in North America. The city is a “living lab” for students in the film programs. Here they will learn the craft of sound and video design and production and gain access to professionals in the field who may ultimately hire them one day. Three main campuses and several other locations place students in the heart of downtown Toronto — St. James Campus, Casa Loma Campus and the Waterfront Campus.
“Great program. I applied 4 years after graduating from a graphic design program. Application process was straightforward and asked for short video answering what my favourite movie was and why but I think they recently added a video submission, so get your reel together. Since graduating I've worked on sets in Toronto and done freelance ad content for a few different agencies.
 ”
What You’ll Learn 
With the growth of North America’s mobile entertainment and gaming industry, there’s an increased demand for sound designers. George Brown College’s Sound Design & Production program focuses on creating sound for film, television and games. Students collaborate with other media programs to create the sound for shorts, animations and games. Courses include sound design theory, sound design, applied postproduction, game audio design, production and location sound and more.
George Brown College’s Video Design & Production diploma program will expose students to traditional and emerging film techniques. Courses include digital video technology, digital production, digital storytelling, audio production, video editing and visual effects, directing, and a capstone project.
 
Toronto: St. James Campus, Casa Loma Campus and the Waterfront Campus.
About Fanshawe College
Located in southwestern Ontario, Fanshawe College is one of Ontario’s largest colleges, with four campuses in London, Woodstock, St. Thomas and Simcoe and is home to more than 43,000 students every year. Fanshawe’s hands-on Advanced Filmmaking program is designed for students looking for practical skills to provide them with the knowledge needed to enter the film and television world.
 
“I did film at Fanshawe and it delivered what it promised. Some of my instructors were awesome while others were so-so. I grew up in London and stayed close to home but realized after I was in the program that there are other schools in Toronto that have a better reputation.

Also people talk about Fanshawe's "slacker vibe", but you don't have to fall into that trap. You can find slackers at every school.

In the end, I have a stable job in my field and I live in Toronto. So no regrets, but make sure you put in the work and start networking from Day One. ”
What You’ll Learn
This graduate certificate program will build on your prior technical, theoretical and creative knowledge and introduce you to the possibilities available when working as part of a film crew. Industry professionals will guide you through the hands-on technical and artistic aspects of documentary and narrative filmmaking. You will gain an understanding of the Canadian film industry and have the option of taking an internship with one of the college’s industry partners. Brock University and Fanshawe have developed an articulation agreement to allow qualified students to earn a four-year Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Film Studies and an Ontario Graduate Certificate in Advanced Filmmaking. You can start at either Fanshawe or Brock.
 
London, Ontario.
About Concordia University
Located in the vibrant, multi-cultural city of Montreal, Concordia provides the perfect backdrop to learn the craft of filmmaking, surrounded by the city’s busy film industry. The school draws over 50,000 students annually, and the faculty has strong ties to the industry. With relatively small class sizes, 75 per cent of courses have fewer than 60 students.
What You’ll Learn
At the centre of the Bachelor of Fine Arts Film Production program are the Filmmaking I, II, and III courses. Technical courses such as cinematography and sound support the core production courses in the program. Other courses incorporate the process and aesthetic considerations such as writing, directing, expanded cinema, montage, production design and creative producing.
The Master of Fine Arts, Film Production combines seminar courses in art criticism, history and theory, augmented by workshops, visiting lectures and special projects, with an independent, supervised studio practice in the first two years and the third year is devoted to studio practice and production.
Montreal
About Toronto Film School
Located across three Yonge Street campuses in downtown Toronto, Toronto Film School offers a hands-on, collaborative education opportunity covering all aspects of filmmaking. The school offers small classes with lots of one-on-one instruction and mentoring. You will build relationships with fellow students and a professional network in the program and out in the field while learning at Toronto Film School’s new studio campus, which opened in 2019. Online programs are available through the Toronto Film School at Yorkville University in New Brunswick, such as a Video Production Diploma and a Writing for Film and TV Diploma.
“I had the chance to attend TFS from 2018 to 2019, in Film Production. I've enjoyed the entirety of the syllabus, complete and multidimensional. I was able to not only sharpen my creative intuitions, but also to have a more exact sense as to how to deploy them more effectively in the context of a large-scale production. There, I was given the opportunity to flourish not only as a cinephile, but also as a someone with the necessary toolkit to be an effective part of the industry.
I'm now working as a producer for a production company, three years (and a pandemic) after my graduation, and I still have deep connections with some of my professors, most notably Michaelangelo Masangkay, who I still call to this day for questions, references and advices.
 ”
What You’ll Learn
Whether you’re looking to be a director, producer, camera operator, sound designer or post-production supervisor, the Toronto Film School offers accelerated programs that can take you in a variety of directions in the world of filmmaking, including a Film Production Diploma. You will learn the creative, technical, and business areas of filmmaking and shoot films on the same gear used to shoot today’s Hollywood films and TV series and graduate ready to take on several roles in the industry.
Nearly a dozen programs offer courses that include audio, editing, cinematography, production, camera and set procedure, marketing and promotion, advanced directing, storyboards and visual storytelling. Students can expect to graduate with a portfolio of work in just 18 months.
For more, check out these in-depth career guides from Toronto Film School professors on how to become a producer and how to become an actor. Toronto Film School is also among the country’s top acting schools.
Toronto
About Trebas Institute
Study film production in Toronto — one of North America’s top filmmaking centres. Established in 1979, Trebas Institute is a private career college focused on providing the skills needed for people to succeed in the entertainment industry. About 80 per cent of graduates from Trebas Institute find a job related to their field within six months into careers such as film and video editors, gaffer/grip, screenwriting, post-production work, and cinematography.
“Trebas is awesome! I graduated from it back in 2015 under the Sound Design Program. I met some amazing people that were just as intrigued as I was to learn. The amazing help that the faculty has given post-graduation is commendable, they actively seek out work for their Alumni which is something I can only appreciate more as the years go by. 
In the past I performed in La Voix 2017 and made it to the semifinals. I even toured with the famous Quebec musician “Marc Dupre” that same summer. Today I go under the moniker “Brandon Mig” as I compose and perform music in Quebec. My songs have hit the top 10 on Quebec Radio, as well as roughly 2Million streams on Spotify. My debut single “Best I’ll Never Have” won the SOCAN “Most Popular Song” Award for 2019. The knowledge from my program allowed me to communicate exactly what I wanted when interacting with producers, as well as give me the building blocks for my own demos, and Vocal production work that I do on the side. 
Trebas is a great school as well as a great compendium of wisdom that helps you even after you graduate. They will always be there for you.
 ”
What You’ll Learn
You will be immersed in learning how to operate essential equipment for the film industry, including cameras (HD, 4K and more), lighting and audio equipment, green screens, contemporary video post-production and editing software. Projects will include working on short films, a web series, television broadcasts and commercials. The instructors have vast experience in entertainment production and are constantly bringing new techniques to the learning experience of each program.
Toronto
About Vancouver Film School
Founded in 1987, VFS operates like a major film studio with multiple production facilities for creating film, TV, games, animation, design, digital applications and more. The school offers 15 post-secondary programs taught by industry professionals across eight campuses across Vancouver in the heart of Canada’s Hollywood North. You will have access to the school’s alumni directory and make connections that will help you launch your career.
“I graduated from the film production program in 2007 and found a job almost right away. I landed in LA and began working as a Production Assistant on the show Desperate Housewives and other shows. I have to say, VFS helped me fit right in and gave me the skills and industry knowledge I needed to grow. I really enjoyed my time there and think it's a great place to learn art, camera and assistant directing. ”
What You’ll Learn
You can graduate with a diploma in film production in one year with a demo reel of your work. Students explore the various disciplines of filmmaking during the year and specialize in two of five key creative streams: directing, cinematography, producing, production design and post-production.
Vancouver 
About Simon Fraser University 
Established in 1965, Simon Fraser University, located on Canada’s West Coast, is a filmmaking hub with campuses in Vancouver, Burnaby and Surrey. The film program is in downtown Vancouver’s School for the Contemporary Arts. Given the location, the school maintains strong ties with national and regional festivals, post-production houses, sound houses and industry professionals.
What You’ll Learn
The Bachelor of Fine Arts film program combines technical training and skills development with instruction in cinema studies and history. Of the approximately 125 people who apply to the program each year, 24 are accepted. Those 24 students move together as a group forming close working relationships. The program offers three options for study: a Major in Film, Extended Minor in Film, and a Minor in Film and Video Studies. In the first year, students learn to shoot 16mm film on Bolex cameras and how to hand-process film. In the third and fourth years, the option to shoot on film is still there, though many students still opt to work in digital video.
Vancouver, Burnaby and Surrey.
About Capilano University
Located in North Vancouver on the slopes of the North Shore Mountains, Capilano University is known for small classes (25 students on average) providing individualized attention and support. Instructors have credentials from the professional fields they teach — from business and music to applied behaviour analysis, with connections from working in their respective industries. Many programs offer practical work placement learning through co-op and work practicum placements. It’s also in the heart of Canada’s West Coast film industry.
 
“I graduated in 2016 when the film industry in Vancouver was booming. There were plenty of jobs waiting for me when I graduated from CapU on local and international productions. The education was pretty well-rounded and helped me become a better filmmaker. Class sizes were small and taught by top-notch faculty. I would recommend my program to anyone who is serious about a career in this industry. ”
What You’ll Learn

The university’s Bosa Centre for Film and Animation delivers this four-year Bachelor of Motion Picture Arts Degree program. Courses include technical directing, cinematography foundation, production design, advanced editing, sound editing and sound recording, and screenwriting and producing. You will work with up-to-date professional equipment and facilities, including an 8000 sq. ft. sound stage, 3D camera rigs, and a 3D editing lab.
Vancouver 
About Confederation College
Northern Ontario’s Confederation College, a school with approximately 7,000 students, offers a two-year diploma program that leaves graduates with exceptional storytelling skills. Since 1967, Confederation has been providing technical courses across eight Ontario campuses. The school’s main campus in Thunder Bay offers a robust program that dives into the details of nearly every aspect of film or television production.
Graduates from Confederation’s film program have gone on to work on the sets of Avengers: Endgame, Murdoch Mysteries, Pirates of the Caribbean, Stranger Things and more.
“Quality, not quantity - that's exactly about Conflix Film School. I'm a fresh graduate, already working in the industry and I can't express how much I'm grateful for this program. Coming green to sets, I was shocked to realize that my knowledge of work is on the same level with professional union workers, who have been in this industry for ages.
(I work as Cam Op, AC + GE Department)
Conflix uses all its budget on the newest equipment, and bunch of cool technical stuff, and by the time you graduate you will have a
hands on experience with all of it. And trust me, all this knowledge will open so many doors for you, you can't even imagine. Industry loves flexible people, who can do many things on set.
Plus, the way this program is planned is unique and I would even say - the best out there. You REALLY get to experience the full range of what the real set is like, while being a student. So by the time you come out to the actual set for work, you won't see any difference. Because it will feel and function exactly like sets in college.
I met a lot of people from various famous film programs from all over Canada by now, and each time I feel so grateful that I went exactly to Conflix. Because trust me, you can really see the difference in training.
On set nobody cares for your diploma and the name of the college/university, all they want is to see whether or not you can do the work.
 ”
What You’ll Learn
Confederation’s two-year film production diploma program is designed to get your name on the silver screen as soon as possible. Students study all elements of film production, including directing, writing, cinematography, sound mixing, and even the core business functions supporting the film and television industry.
During the program, every student can direct their own film, complete with a whole crew and state-of-the-art production facilities. They then get to premiere them at a year-end film festival with the rest of the cohort.
Confederation further prides itself on having up-to-date equipment to give students experience with the same cameras and other tools they will eventually use on set. This experience at school prepares grads to jump into a familiar situation once hired. Students make three films during the program starting in the first year. All equipment is provided by the program, meaning you don’t need to purchase or rent gear. The program offers 24/7 access to state-of-the-art facilities and equipment, such as the industry-heralded Arri Alexa camera.
Students in their fourth semester travel to Toronto to meet with alums working in the city’s film industry. Grads regularly gain entry-level positions as production, editing, camera, or sound assistants. Graduates of the program go on to various entry-level positions, including production assistant, editing assistant, camera assistant and sound assistant. After experience and time in the industry, graduates may move up to higher roles, including director, writer, editor, director of cinematography, sound designer, art director and producer.
Thunder Bay, Ontario 
About Sheridan College
Located west of Toronto, Sheridan College is well known for its creative programs and attracts instructors with relevant and recent industry experience. Their current production facilities allow students to learn from the best in an ideal setting. Student work consistently wins awards at film festivals in North America.
 
What You’ll Learn
The Advanced Television & Film Production one-year program integrates the practical, technical and creative aspects of television and film studies while providing direct, industry-relevant experience. Students will be trained on specialized skills and understand technologies and production methods required in the industry. Courses will cover directing, screenwriting, editing, sound, production design, post-production and cinematography. Camera students will work in professional-style teams coached by industry gaffers and cinematographers. Audio students are trained in software such as Pro Tools, and Sheridan has two industry-style mixing theatres for audio mix playback.
In the Honours Bachelor of Film and Television, you can choose electives in direction, production, writing and editing to find where your talent lies. In your final semesters, you’ll specialize in documentary or drama production, scriptwriting, directing, cinematography, editing, or sound. You’ll work in teams, partnering with others in different specializations to pitch, seek funding, and write and produce your project. You’ll go through the same process filmmakers do to prepare you for the industry. Students do a 14-week work placement (between semesters 6 and 7) and a portfolio project.
Oakville, Ontario.
About Red Deer Polytechnic

Located halfway between Calgary and Edmonton, Red Deer Polytechnic was established in 1964, offering more than 100 programs. In 2018 the school was approved to become a university offering degree programs and transitioned to a polytechnic university.
What You’ll Learn
This four-year Bachelor of Applied Arts program in film, theatre and live entertainment will prepare graduates for entry-level work as performers, directors, producers, or technicians in mid to large-sized theatres and film sets and production companies. The program offers a choice of majors, including film production and live entertainment. The four years are dedicated to mentored work-related experience where students can work in a relevant industry or on independent projects. Courses include an introduction to film, visual fundamentals, advanced cinematography, post-production and more.
 
Red Deer, Alberta
CourseCompare is Canada's marketplace for education. Its editorial staff consists of award-winning journalists, visual storytellers, data analysts and web developers working together to help prepare people for the future of work.
I am curious if there are film schools that teach online?
It would be very helpful to know the exact tuition fees for the programs
Hi Nicolas – You can find tuition for each program along with upcoming start dates by clicking on any of the schools on this page, or by selecting any of the “explore courses” links. Happy learning!
That depends on the program, N Film, but you’ll have to do some in-class studying for most areas. 
Have you seen CourseCompare’s search results for different subjects. Here’s the one for filmmaking. I like it better than the rankings:
https://www.coursecompare.ca/courses/subject/filmmaking-courses/
Thanks, Teddy. Kudos for sharing your film school AND CourseCompare expertise with our users!
TFS is now at a 2 star rating, yet above higher rated film schools. Why is that?
Hi Jerry, 
Please see our ranking methodology below, which gives user ratings a 25% weighting. Factors like job placement (reported by the BC government, in this case), employer satisfaction, graduation rates and average salaries within six months of graduation are also considered and will affect a school’s place in our rankings. 
https://www.coursecompare.ca/how-do-coursecompares-annual-school-rankings-work/
Hope this helps!
CourseCompare
what about Humber film and media production??
Hello! I’m hesitating between the Vancouver Film School and the Toronto Film School for the Film Production Program.
Any thoughts on this?? Thank you!!
It’s hard to find experienced people on this subject, but you sound like you know what you’re talking about! Thanks!
I saw that the tuition fees for the film program at the Simon Fraser university is 23,000. Is this for international students? Is the tuition per term or per year?
Hi Nicolas – Tuition listed on CourseCompare reflects the full cost of a course or program in Canadian dollars. This allows our learners to compare apples to apples, so to speak.
I want to know more about experiences of students studying in or who have graduated from infocus film school. A review would be nice.
Hi Aashutosh: You can find student ratings and reviews of InFocus Film School here: https://www.coursecompare.ca/school/infocus-film-school/
What about Humber, is this a good option?
Can somebody tell me if there’s a winter intake for bfa in film production in Concordia University in the upcoming years 2022-2023 ?
Hi Rico – There sure is. Virtual open house is Sat., Feb 12. https://www.concordia.ca/academics/undergraduate/film-production.html
Lot’s of great schools here but I’d love to change your mind about not including Confederation College.
@N Film I saw that Toronto Film School has online programs but it looks like just Film Production and Writing for TV and Film. https://www.coursecompare.ca/school/toronto-film-school/
Confederation. Woot!
Wonderful website. Plenty of useful information here especially with all of these reviews and figures on student outcomes! 
Didn’t know there were so many film schools in Canada! Thank you. 
Can we know about past students reviews about these colleges
Hi Udey, 
You can click on any of the school names (or their logos), or click “read all rating and reviews” below to see what recent graduates are saying about film programs across Canada. 
As always, you can also email us at hello@coursecompare.ca to speak to a Learning Advisor. 
Thanks,
CourseCompare
Confederation College. Woot! So glad it made it onto the list this year.
I will love to study film because that has been my passion
Howdy! This article couldn’t be written much better and I just wanted to say I feel inspired to take the plunge into a formal filmmaking education. Thank you!
Hmm… InFocus Film School in Vancouver is a pretty underrated film school. Figured they’d make the list this year!
https://infocusfilmschool.com/film-production/
I researched both for my son and both have very high fees.  Absolute VFS over TFS if you go that route. My son ended up at Humber and very happy.
I am an international student from Gambia currently in my advanced diploma program at the Media Academy for Journalism and Communication, TV production is one of the courses am doing, and I want to pursue my degree at these schools, is there any scholarship program if I can have one?
Hi Haddy, 
Many schools do offer scholarships, and you can check this page for more information: https://www.coursecompare.ca/subject/filmmaking-courses/  Look for “scholarships available” under each program’s tuition. 
Nevertheless, we recommend requesting a course package to connect with admissions and to confirm what’s being offered to international students. 
Happy filmmaking!
Good day,
I have a interesting idea that might be interesting as well for you.
In case you are interested, please do not hesitate to communicate with me.
I am originally from Brazil and would love to share my project with a Canadian school.
Kind regards,
We’re always open to new ideas, Cristiane! You can send yours to us at hello@coursecompare.ca.
CAN ANYONE WHO ATTEND THESE COLLEGES RECOMMEND?
How does the University of British Columbia’s film training program distinguish itself in terms of hands-on learning and preparing students to contribute to and shape the film industry? 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment * 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 


Diploma


                      Toronto                    
Apr 01, 2024 - Oct 01, 2025
Tuition
$39,210
Diploma


                      Toronto                    
Apr 01, 2024 - Oct 01, 2025
Tuition
$39,210
Diploma


                      Toronto                    
Sep 03 - Aug 30, 2024
Tuition
$11,434
By: John Tench
How to Become an Actor
By: Michaelangelo Masangkay
What is a Producer?

You are interested in
*Please select a subject
By submitting your email address, you acknowledge and agree to CourseCompare.ca's Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.

You need help with
By submitting your email address, you acknowledge and agree to CourseCompare.ca's Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
Get info about top courses, career resources and the latest scholarship and funding opportunities.

	© 2024 Course Compare