
Bringing characters to life on stage is a demanding but exciting career path. To reach the stage, in addition to a great deal of natural talent, there’s also a lot of technical training involved, and that’s where our theatre arts programs come in.
The best way for you to develop your craft is to learn from the best. With this in mind, our students train and perform at the Young Centre for the Performing Arts in the Distillery District. We offer more classes than any other public-sector theatre school, with small class sizes for more focused learning. Our deeply respected programming is delivered by instructors who are industry professionals, teaching the skills you need on stage and connecting you to the people who can help shape your future career.
We’ve partnered with three professional theatres – Toronto’s renowned Soulpepper and Tarragon theatres, and Theatre by the Bay, Barrie, providing internship and mentoring opportunities for students. As students train at the Young Centre for the Performing Arts, they are exposed to professional directors, stage managers, designers, and technicians. And in the final year of their studies, students get to experience what it’s like to perform a season.
Our Entry Advising service is a free service provided by the college to help match your skills, background and career goals with program options.
Attend an information session to learn more about our programs and have your questions answered by our knowledgeable faculty and staff. 
Our tour guides will show you around our classrooms, labs and facilities, and give you an idea of what to expect from student life at George Brown.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.