
Many people are experiencing financial stress related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and this pressure can be especially challenging when you are a student who is also trying to keep your studies on track.  
Here are some resources for you to support yourself and your household at this difficult time.
If your income has been negatively affected as a result of COVID-19, the federal government offers emergency financial supports for Canadians, including Employment Insurance, among others. Visit canada.ca/en/department-finance/economic-response-plan.html for more information. 
The federal government has changed student loan programs "to allow more students to qualify." Visit canada.ca/en/department-finance/economic-response-plan.html for more information.
Learn about financial awards available to George Brown College students and how to apply at georgebrown.ca/apply/financial-aid/awards-and-scholarships.
George Brown employees continue to work remotely to help you with your OSAP applications. If you have OSAP-related questions, please email FinAid@georgebrown.ca or visit georgebrown.ca/apply/financial-aid to learn more.
Mortgages: Canada’s big banks are offering mortgage payment relief on a case-by-case basis for Canadians negatively affected by COVID-19. See links on the Canadian Bankers Association website for more details.
Renters: If you can't pay your rent you can apply for emergency assistance from the province. Learn more at ontario.ca/page/apply-emergency-assistance. If you are looking for alternative housing arrangements, there are student-friendly rental options at Places4Students.com.
For tips on how to sort your monthly expenses, see this COVID-19 financial tip sheet prepared by the New School of Finance and Money Management tips from George Brown’s Financial Aid office.
The Student Association provides legal support related to financial and other issues. See the Student Association website for more information and email Bill Reid at legal@sagbc.ca for consultation and advice.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.