
We’re launching an exciting new program at the School of Mechanical Engineering Technologies and offering entrance scholarships thanks to a partnership with Toronto Hydro. 
We collaborated with Toronto Hydro to develop the Electromechanical Engineering Technology - Power and Control program that starts in September. And to celebrate our first cohort of 25 students, Toronto Hydro is providing two entrance scholarships—one specifically for women. 
There’s still time to apply for this program. Take your next step. 
“We are proud to work with Toronto Hydro in training technologists for the industrial and advanced manufacturing sectors—professionals who will maintain and operate sophisticated automated equipment,” said Adel Esayed, Dean, Centre for the Construction and Engineering Technologies. “And we are grateful for Toronto Hydro’s generous support to help remove barriers to education in this exciting field.” 
A total of four Toronto Hydro entrance scholarships will be awarded for the 2021-2022 academic year—two available to all students and two for women. For the next three years after that, a total of two Toronto Hydro entrance scholarships will be available per year. 
"We’re thrilled to be collaborating with George Brown College and are pleased to offer two entrance scholarships for students applying to the Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Power and Control diploma program. Toronto Hydro is dedicated to investing in future talent by giving back to the diverse community we serve," said Jennifer Stulberg, Director, Talent Management, Toronto Hydro. "Through programming support, co-op, and experiential learning, we offer students opportunities to explore the electricity sector and become a part of our most valuable source of energy … our employees!"
George Brown recognizes the power of partnerships and these types of collaborations create excellent results—our students get access to the latest sector-specific developments, technology and networking opportunities, and employers know where to find grads who are ready to hit the ground running. We’re proud to be a partner of choice for leading organizations like Toronto Hydro and many others. 
Students who meet the following criteria can apply for the Toronto Hydro entrance scholarships: 
Visit the Student Awards page for more information, including detailed instruction on how to submit your awards application. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.