
A transcript is a complete record of the grades you earned while attending college. An unofficial transcript is available within your STU-View account at stuview.georgebrown.ca. Official transcripts may be requested through the options below. If an official transcript is to be presented to an educational institution, it must be addressed to the institution and presented in a sealed envelope with the official college stamp. It is recommended that these requests be mailed directly to institutions by the college.
Important Notice: George Brown College has adopted the MyCreds™ platform for issuing official transcripts.
You may now request your official transcript by filling out the following request form: Academic Records Request Form
For further information, please refer to Frequently Asked Questions about MyCreds or contact the Academic Records department directly: Contact the Records Department.
If you are requesting a transcript for an Ontario post-secondary institution, and an application has already been submitted through Ontario Colleges or the Ontario University Application Centre, an online transcript request can be made on their websites. Visit Ontario Colleges or the Ontario University Application Centre.
A fee of $85.00 is required for these requests ($15.00 for the transcript & $70.00 for the Nursing License forms and program information). Please allow 4-6 weeks for processing.
Important: If you graduated from the collaborative Nursing degree program, your official transcripts for your BScN are only available through Toronto Metropolitan University (TMU), formerly known as Ryerson University.
You can obtain a transcript request form online via TMU’s transcript request portal or by contacting the their Records department at 416-979-5136.
Important Notice: George Brown College has adopted the MyCreds™ platform and will begin issuing digitized credentials via MyCreds later this month.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.