
The TLC is open for in-person and online tutoring! Learn how to log in with your GBC credentials. Book now!
At the TLC, we have various tutoring services to suit any kind of learner.
This is a booked 30-60 minute appointment, either in-person at one of our TLC locations, or online through face-to-face video tutoring. You and the tutor work together on whatever skill area you’ve identified. You can book up to 1 hour of tutoring per day and per subject (English, math, accounting or study skills). Group appointments (up to 4 people working on the same skill area) are welcome.
Depending on the campus location, the TLC offers drop-in tutoring where one or two tutors are available for a block of time on a day, and students can drop-in and get one or more questions answered or study in the space until they have a question. The difference between one-on-one and drop-in is that you are not guaranteed a certain amount of time with a tutor. It’s on an as-needed basis, and tutors will be going from student to student to ensure that everyone receives support. There is no booking required, and the time a student spends in drop-in does not add to the tutoring limits (see “One-on-One”)
Online tutoring works in the same way as one-on-one tutoring, except you’re meeting virtually. All appointments are still booked via our booking program. For more information on online tutoring, please watch these how-to videos. Appointments are 30-60 minutes long and limited to 1-hour per subject (math/English/accounting/study skills) per day. Unfortunately, group appointments cannot be accommodated.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.