
There are many different types of awards, scholarships and bursaries available to support and recognize your time at George Brown. These awards celebrate academic achievement, financial need, and community involvement.
Select the award you are interested in to find out more information:
If you apply for college-wide or divisional awards, you only need to submit one application per term to be considered for most of them. Also, you can resubmit your fall application for the winter and spring semesters in the same academic year.
A selection of college-wide awards, scholarships and bursaries, not limited to students of any particular division.
There are scholarships, awards and bursaries available based on the specific academic division of study.
Scholarships, bursaries, and awards offered by other organizations outside of George Brown.
Awards available to previous George Brown graduates, who have returned to the college for another program and are also current students.
These awards and scholarships are available to full-time students at George Brown College who self-identify as Indigenous.
A range of awards, scholarships and bursaries are available for international students.
A number of scholarships and awards are offered by the Student Association of George Brown College.
These awards and scholarships are available to full-time students who are actively involved in athletics at George Brown.
This award recognizes students who have demonstrated significant leadership and commitment to their community.
The Student Access Guarantee is a bursary available to George Brown students as part of Ontario's Student Access Guarantee.
This bursary is designed to assist students who have been placed in serious financial difficulty due to sudden and unexpected situations.
Entrance Scholarships are one form of financial awards available to incoming students who meet the qualifications and requirements.
George brown Offers various scholarships, bursaries and other awards based on both academic and financial needs through the President’s Office.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.