
University of Toronto Child Care on Charles opened in October 2005 as a partnership between the University of Toronto (U of T) and George Brown College. This centre is operated by George Brown College and serves as a training Lab School for the students from the Early Childhood Education programs at the College while providing care for Graduate Students from U of T. The child care centre also supports research and curriculum development opportunities from both institutions. Located within the University's Student Family Housing, the Child Care Centre on Charles provides full-time and part-time care.
Our centre serves as a model lab school for the diploma and degree programs in the School of Early Childhood, and provides a training ground where college students are supported in developing their skills in working with children and families as they complete the hands on component of their academic program.
Manager: Venise BennettEmail: Venise.Bennett@georgebrown.ca
Centre Phone number: 416-415-2604Address: 35 Charles Street West, Toronto ON, M4Y 1R6Age groups accommodated: 6 weeks to 5 yearsHours of operation: 8 a.m. – 5:30 p.m.Food: Catered by Wholesome Kids
The Childcare centres in the School of Early childhood have applied for and have been approved for the CWELCC program.
All of our lab schools will follow the guidelines from Toronto Children’s Services in the implementation of the CWELCC plan. As such, the fees are inclusive of all of our services. Therefore, we do not charge any additional fees for extracurricular activities or transportation, etc.
Children under the age of 6 are eligible for the fee reduction.
To join our waitlist, please complete this form. 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.