
Students in the fourth year of the Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language-English) (C302) degree program at George Brown College provide a student-run volunteer student interpreting service for a limited number of situations.
This service was previously known as the GBC Student Referral Service, which is closed and is no longer in service.
The goal of the service is to provide more access to low-risk social events for Deaf and hard of hearing individuals and in turn, provide students with more opportunities to practice their interpreting skills in authentic contexts. Interpreting swimming lessons or a birthday party would be examples of low-risk contexts.
Students in their fourth year of the program run and participate in the service as part of their studies. Students will accept approved requests for volunteer interpreters and assign students to interpret your requests. Faculty in the program must approve all requests that are sent to the service.
The service does not accept assignments where funding is available for professional interpreting services, where professional interpreters are typically/historically secured, nor accept assignments that are beyond the scope and abilities of student interpreters. Assignments that have risk, are too difficult or potentially harmful to students and consumers are declined. You must make sure that there is no funding to pay for a professional interpreter before you contact us.
If any of the following agencies typically pay for the service, we will not accept the request. Please check with the following agencies prior to contacting us to ensure they will not pay for an interpreter for the event:
** Note: these are broad categories with some examples. Depending on contextual factors, the request may or may not be approved.
If your request is appropriate and acceptable for student interpreters, we will make every attempt to fill the request. There is no guarantee that students are available. Two student interpreters will always be sent to the assignment. Please keep in mind that depending on the students’ skills, they may provide interpretation either consecutively or simultaneously. Service is not accepted if it conflicts with classes.
To request student interpreters, please email: gbcvsis@gmail.com
In your request please provide the date and time of the event, location, nature/topic and number of participants.
You will receive a detailed explanation of the service once a request for student interpreters has been submitted to GBC VSIS.
As part of the volunteer nature of this service, students do not accept payment for their work. We ask that in lieu of payment that feedback forms be filled out and submitted via email to Rhondda Reynolds, Internship Instructor rreynolds@georgebrown.ca
Ideally, the request is submitted to the service with at least five (5) business days’ notice. As students’ workload, studies and schedules are demanding, the more time provided for a request means students have time to make arrangements if necessary.
Depending on the nature of the request, both in-person (GTA) and online events can be considered.
*Whether the event is in person or online, recording of the students interpreting is forbidden. If the event is online, it must not be open to the public*
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.