
Attention: Early Childhood Education (ECE) students who currently reside in Toronto region (postal code that starts with the letter “M”)
Special Note: For International Students who currently reside in overseas
Special Note: For students who is under 18 years of age
For students who currently reside in the Toronto region and registered in the Community Services, Health Sciences and Hospitality programs.  If you are registered in the School of Early Childhood programs, it is mandatory that you contact the ECE department directly at ece@georgebrown.ca and read the blue box announcement above.
To apply for Toronto Police Service Vulnerable Sector Check Online, you must click and download the process that is applicable to you below:
For students who currently reside in another region, click on your specific Regional Police Service website below, read their instructions carefully to learn about their requirements, processing time and fees for obtaining their Vulnerable Sector Check Online Application. 
If your Regional Police Service requires a letter from the college, please send email request to Suzette Martinuzzi, Pre-placement Coordinator at smartinu@georgebrown.ca, with your Full Name, GBC ID#, Program Name, semester, term, Regional Police Service Name and their complete business address. We will send you the letter within 48-72 hours to your email account.
For students who currently reside in Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, New Brunswick, New Foundland & Labrador, Nova Scotia, North West Territories, Nunavut, Saskatchewan, Quebec & Yukon, please contact us first before you apply and pay for vulnerable sector check at your specific regional police service.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.