
Important Note: for the Spring 2023 terms, Centre for Business courses take place at the St. James Campus, Casa Loma Campus, and Waterfront Campus, dependent on the program. For the Fall 2023 term, Centre for Business courses take place at the St. James Campus.
The School of Design resides within a 103,000-square-foot facility in the Daniels Waterfront – City of the Arts development that houses our School of Design programs and a research hub. This state-of-the-art building supports academic programs and industry projects, with features such as:
Campus tours are for prospective students who are thinking about attending George Brown College. Tours show the common areas of each campus including the cafeteria, library, gym, student services, and other facilities.
Check out our George Brown College campuses from anywhere in the world!
The main subway stops for the Waterfront Campus are Union Station on Line 1 (Yonge-University), as well as Castle Frank Station and Pape Station, which are on Line 2 (Bloor-Danforth). From Union Station, you may take the 19 Bay or 72B Pape bus to Dockside Drive. From Castle Frank Station, you may take the 65 Parliament bus to Dockside Drive. From Pape Station, you may take the 72B Pape bus to Queens Quay East and Lower Sherbourne.
Parking is available in the lower levels of 51 Dockside Drive.
The Entrance to the Daniels City of the Arts parking garage is located on the East side of the building on Richardson St, Just north of Queens Quay.
There is no direct access to the new School of Design from the parking garage. Visitors will have to take the elevator to the main condominium lobby, exit the building onto Queens Quay, and walk East up Lower Jarvis to the main Campus doors.
Find other parking lots around Waterfront Campus at parkopedia.ca
Floor plans showing accessibility features and department and services guides:

3 Lower Jarvis Street

Toronto ON M5E 3Y5
View in Google Maps

51 Dockside Drive

Toronto ON M5A 1B6
View in Google Maps
1. 
3 Lower Jarvis Street

Toronto ON M5E 3Y5
2. 
51 Dockside Drive

Toronto ON M5A 1B6
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.