
Here are handy links to frequently used college websites:
Download the official George Brown College app today for Apple or Android. It’s full of useful information including class locations, grades, important dates, and special deals for students. You can even join the Student Service Centre queue directly from your phone or lodge an IT help request on the go.
GBC APP
Experiencing technical difficulties? Submit a help ticket. IT Support is available 24/7 for our learning management system, Brightspace. We also offer support for STU-View, email, password resets, the mobile app and wifi amongst other things.
If you’d prefer to have your questions answered in person, visit the Help Desk at your campus Library Learning Commons (LLC).
TECHNICAL SUPPORT
AppsAnywhere is a free service that allows George Brown students, staff and faculty to access software on-demand, anytime and anywhere. 
Skip the line all over campus with Boost mobile ordering. Order ahead from your favourite food stations and pick up on your own schedule.
Boost app
Did you know that the College provides free access to Office 365 for all full-time students and one terabyte of cloud-based storage through Microsoft Online? The Office 365 suite includes Word, Powerpoint, and Excel amongst other programs.
Access to Office 365 including OneDrive is available to currently registered students and up to 1 year after your last registered course.
TRY OFFICE 365
Full-time George Brown students can access thousands of online tutorials for free through Linkedin Learning including audio, business, marketing, motion graphics, programming, and writing courses.
GET STARTED
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.