
                        The ministry amended Ontario’s Building Code (O. Reg 332/12) to further harmonize 
                         Ontario’s Building Code with the 2015 National Codes. 
                         These changes will help reduce red tape for businesses and remove barriers to interprovincial trade throughout the country. 
                         The amendments are based on code change proposals the ministry consulted in 2016 and 2017.                         
                     

                        Changes come into effect on three dates:
                    

             George Brown College is currently updating the self-study/participant manuals and will be available for purchase on April 13, 2020.    
        

                        The Ministry BCIN exams will be updated to the above Regulation commencing on June 1, 2020.
                    

                         Note: Effective August 1, 2018 the Building Code manuals can be purchased from Soho Business Solutions at the following link:
                         Order Manuals


                George Brown College and the Ontario Building Officials Association are pleased to announce a long-term partnership to integrate their building code training platforms.  The overall mission is to enhance Building Code education at both a provincial and national level by improving the quality and accessibility of training products and services.  George Brown College’s educational experience in combination with the Ontario Building Officials Association’s industry experience will allow us to offer superior products and services to professional building officials and building code practitioners both in preparation for Building Code examinations as well as professional development. 
        


            Safe and efficient construction in our communities requires
                    a high calibre of expertise among municipal building
                    officials, builders, design professionals and other Ontario
                    Building Code users. Keeping up-to-date
                    on the Building Code also promotes building safety
                    and efficient construction within the province.
                    

            In addition, a range of Building Code practitioners must
                    register under the Building Code in order to practice in
                    Ontario. Code training can help them prepare for
                    qualification examinations.

            For complete information on qualification and registration
                    please visit the Ontario
                    Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing web site.

            A new edition of the Building Code went into effect January
                    1, 2014, and this creates an additional need for Code
                    training.

            The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing has transferred 
                    responsibility for Building Code training to George Brown College. 
                    This includes the development and delivery of both training courses 
                    and self-study manuals.
                    

            Training materials for the 2012 Building Code have been updated 
                    by George Brown College. These materials are delivered by the 
                    community college sector and potentially other authorized bodies, 
                    with George Brown College as the lead institution.
        

            George Brown College, in partnership with other training
                    organizations, offers both Overview and Detailed Technical
                    Courses to those involved in the enforcement of
                    the Building Code Act and Regulations as well as those
                    involved in the design and supervision of
                    construction.
                    

            Courses are offered either in-class, on-line or through
                    self-study. Click here for a complete list of Course Delivery Organizations
                    offering in-class courses.
        

            Self-study manuals can be purchased Here


            Building Code Information Officer, George Brown College
BuildingCode@GeorgeBrown.ca
            416-415-5000 x6725
             
                    


                    ©  George Brown College

                