
If want to grab a quick coffee and a snack before heading into class or you’re looking for lunch options, we’ve got you covered at each campus.
You can find popular outlets like Tim Hortons, Bento Sushi and Pizza Pizza at each campus as well as bar and grills operated by the Student Association.
And if you're bringing food from home, you’ll find microwaves in your campus cafeteria and Student Association areas.
Visit Chartwells’ Dine on Campus site for more information or click on one of the drop-down options below.
You can grab a bite to eat in the cafeteria or in the Student Centre Lounge.
Building C, level 2
Visit dineoncampus.ca/georgebrown for operating hours.
Building E, level 1
You can register for SNAP at Casa Loma Campus at the Student Association office, E building, room 127. Visit https://www.studentassociation.ca/student-community-care-services/ for more details.
You can purchase fresh fruits and vegetables at affordable prices at the weekly Good Food Market, Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. - 3 p.m., at St. James Campus, 300 Adelaide St. E., atrium.
This campus offers traditional café options as well as meals prepared fresh by Chef School students.
200 King St. E., building A, lower level
Visit dineoncampus.ca/georgebrown for operating hours.
200 King St. E, building A, fourth floor
Visit dineoncampus.ca/georgebrown for operating hours.
300 Adelaide St. E., building B, second floor
Mondays – Fridays, 7 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
The GBC Café has great daily specials – dishes like mac and cheese, fried chicken or fish tacos. You can also grab a slice of pizza, a sandwich or a salad at this student-run café. There is a selection of pastries, as well as smoothies, coffee and tea.
For daily specials, follow the GBC Café on Twitter: @gbccafe
300 Adelaide St. E., building B, main floor
Mondays – Fridays, 11 a.m. - 3 p.m.
(reduced hours during the summer semester)
Pick up takeaway meals and treats at Chef on the Run. Get there early because there are often lines for student-made cakes, chocolates and other dishes.
If want to enjoy a sit-down meal and support our students, check out The Chefs’ House. Hospitality and Chef School students develop and demonstrate their skills in the kitchen and the dining room. Check thechefshouse.com to see the lunch and dinner menu.
200 King St. E., building A, room 150
Check operating hours at studentassociation.ca.
You can register for SNAP at Casa Loma Campus at the Student Association office, E building, room 127. Visit studentassociation.ca/services/snap for more details.
You can purchase fresh fruits and vegetables at affordable prices at the weekly Good Food Market, Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. - 3 p.m., at St. James Campus, 300 Adelaide St. E., atrium.
Eat lunch while looking out at the Toronto harbour.
Main floor
Visit dineoncampus.ca/georgebrown for operating hours.
7th floor
Visit dineoncampus.ca/georgebrown for operating hours.
You can register for SNAP at Casa Loma Campus at the Student Association office, E building, room 127. Visit studentassociation.ca/services/snap for more details.
You can purchase fresh fruits and vegetables at affordable prices at the weekly Good Food Market, Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. - 3 p.m., at St. James Campus, 300 Adelaide St. E., atrium.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.