
Facilities reflect current technology and industry standards for best possible hands-on training. Labs, kitchens, shops and smart classrooms are enhanced by expansion and renovation.
We offer both full-time and part-time training options so that you can fit your educational experience into your current schedule and be able to balance your education with other work and family commitments.
Each apprenticeship program is personal with plenty of individual attention from excellent instructors. Our faculty is comprised of working professionals who are still actively involved in their industries. They are celebrated chefs, Red Seal Qualified tradespeople, and professional engineers. They know what it takes to work in their fields, and they make sure our students know it too.
George Brown College is built right into the city of Toronto, Canada’s largest city and perhaps the most diverse city in the world. It is the epicenter of nearly every major industry in Canada and one of the most important economic hubs in North America. As such, the city becomes a living lab for our students.
We are committed to giving students an education that teaches them the real-world skills that employers are looking for. How do we know what they want? We ask them. The curriculum for our apprenticeship programs is developed with important input from our partners in industry– the very people who hire our graduates.
Our apprenticeship programs combine hands-on learning in school with on-the-job training in the workplace – so you can earn while you learn. If you are a Secondary School student, you can get started now through the Accelerated Ontario Youth Apprenticeship Program (OYAP) , by applying through your high school.
1. Employer Research, Northstar Research Partners, July 2008  2. Key Performance Indicators Graduate Survey, CCI Research Inc. for the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities, April 14, 2010
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.