
George Brown College is an award-winning employer where we celebrate the achievements and ideas of our employees who are frequently recognized for their work and expertise at every level.
We are extremely proud to be recognized once again as one of the Top 100 Employers by Media Corp Canada. Here are some of the things that make George Brown College a great place to work:
George Brown College fosters a continuous learning environment that encourages and enables individuals to maximize their potential.
Aligned with the strategic goals and directions of the College, the Employee Learning & Development office provides a wide variety of learning opportunities for all George Brown College employees, designed to increase current skill sets and to provide opportunities for growth and future development.
The Employee Learning & Development office at George Brown works collaboratively with College departments and external partners in developing new and innovative programs designed to facilitate the growth of the College employees and ultimately contributing to the education of our students.
The College is committed to helping employees further their education. To that end, there is a lifetime maximum of $20,000 available to full time permanent employees and $5,000 available to regular part time support staff for the completion of a Certificate, Diploma, Undergraduate degree, Masters degree or Doctoral degree. Please refer to the Employee Learning and Development page for further information on this policy.
The College offers its employees a discounted rate of $20.00 for many of the courses offered by the College through its Continuing Education Department.
The College supports employees in the acquisition of computer skills by offering a wide array of on-line tutorials and discussions boards. Face to face training is available for selected programs, and on-line support for individuals is available.
The college offers more than 300 different workshops each year that are geared towards the skill enhancement of faculty, support staff and managers. There are off-site residential retreats that are offered to each employee group on a yearly basis.
George Brown College provides employee compensation and benefits programs that reward and recognize the value and contribution of each employee.
Join us, and discover the rewards of success!
Full time employees enjoy a minimum of fifteen (15) paid vacation days, the period of December 25 through and including January 1 and seven (7) other holidays. The vacation increases over time for Support and Administrative employees and starts at twenty two (22) days for Administrative staff. Academic employees receive two months of vacation which is funded through deferred pay during the faculty year.
Comprehensive health benefits including life, disability, dental, vision, hearing and extended health are provided to full time and academic partial load employees and their families. On average, more than 80% of the cost of these benefits is paid by the College.
For additional information on these benefits please refer to the website covering the employee group you are interested in joining:
Employees’ physical and mental health are supported through our Family and Employee Assistance Program; subsidized Fitness Programs including personal training; Wellness Centre provided by Sun Life which includes health assessments, personal health record and a health library; health bulletins and seminars.
For additional information on our Family and Employee Assistance Program please refer to https://www.shepell.com/en-ca/
We provide a defined benefit pension through the CAAT Pension Plan which is paid equally by the employee and the College. We also provide a retirement savings plan through ScotiaMcLeod paid by the employee through payroll deductions.
For additional information on the CAAT Pension Plan please refer to www.caatpension.on.ca.
For additional information on the retirement savings plan please refer to Scotia Wealth Management website.
George Brown College is both a learning institute and a place of employment. At George Brown College we have the right to study, learn, teach and work in an environment that is free of harassment. The college does not condone harassment or any other form of discrimination; it is treated as a serious offense. This right is supported by the Ontario Human Rights Code and the College’s policy on the Prevention of Discrimination and Harassment. For more about our service, please visit Diversity Equity and Human Rights Services.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.