
Deciding where to pursue your post-secondary education is one of the most important decisions you’ll make.
George Brown College provides a blend of theory and hands-on experience. We prioritize real-world learning and provide students with opportunities to work alongside industry professionals in applied research and field education opportunities. And our industry partnerships mean students get the latest trends and tech they can expect in the field.  
Our location provides you with access to top employers for field education opportunities.
Our facilities, including The Chefs' House and WAVE Clinics, simulate real-world work environments. All of our career-focused programs include at least one experiential learning opportunity*.
We work with industry leaders to ensure the skills you learn in class are the ones you'll need on the job.
Many faculty members have industry experience and will share their real-world knowledge with you.
Gain hands-on experience working alongside industry professionals to develop and test new products.
Want to start your own business? Our entrepreneurship hub startGBC can help get your great idea off the ground.
Whether you’re starting your post-secondary education, making a career shift or enhancing your education with postgraduate studies, you can find the right pathway with our Program Finder.
Tour our campus buildings, common areas and facilities to get a taste of student life.
Talk to faculty and students, see our learning spaces and labs and get program-specific details. 
Navigate through our student residence, learning spaces and common areas.
*Excludes upgrading and preparatory programs
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.