
When dangerous weather is forecast, George Brown College continually monitors conditions and determines how they might affect the safety of our students, employees and college operations. This includes the operation of our child care centres across Toronto.
While the timing of a weather event is often unpredictable, we look to make decisions about the suspension or cancellation of classes and operations by 6 a.m. 
For weather events that occur during the day, decisions are made on an ad-hoc basis. We understand a decision to close the college after classes have started may be frustrating, but it's done in the best interest of students and employees. There are many factors to consider when closing mid-day, including finding a time that will cause the least amount of disruption to academic schedules.
We understand a full closure or early closure of a daycare facility can be an inconvenient or frustrating situation for families at our lab-school child care centres. We know it can be difficult for parents and guardians to arrive at our centres by the early closure time in severe weather and we'll ensure your children are cared for until you can arrive. Parents using our child care centres can find contact information at georgebrown.ca/child-care-centres/#locations.
We don't make operational decisions lightly, and in each case, we do our best to balance our commitment to student learning with the potential risk posed by severe weather.
We understand members of the George Brown community live across the Greater Toronto Area and beyond, and that weather and road conditions vary throughout the region when bad weather arrives. Students should always consider their personal safety when deciding whether to attend classes. Those who decide to stay home must discuss the implications of a missed class with their instructors. This is especially true for assignment deadlines and missed tests or exams.
Sometimes individual classes may be cancelled when the college is open. Students should check their George Brown College email, STU-VIEW or Brightspace for updates.
Students who are on work placements should follow the employer's policy in regard to expectations when it comes to severe weather.
In the event of a college closure, the George Brown community will be informed in several ways:
During any weather event, please use caution and stay safe.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.