
George Brown College’s international student withdrawal/refund policy complies with the Ministry of Colleges and Universities (MCU) directives and Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) regulations. All applicants and students who have paid for and accepted an offer and/or registered for a place in a GBC program are subject to this policy. The policy applies to all new and returning, full-time, part-time, and co-op students.
To be eligible for a partial  refund, you must submit a formal written notification by completing/signing a type-written GBC Withdrawal/Refund Request Form on or before the deadline date.
Download Withdrawal/Refund Form
Your reason(s) for withdrawal must be provided on the Withdrawal/Refund Form. If you are transferring to another Canadian college or university, the name of the school must be identified and funds can be directly transferred to that institution at your request. You are required to notify Citizenship & Immigration Canada of a school transfer through MyCIC.
NOTE: Refund of fees paid by credit card will be returned only to the original credit card used. George Brown College is not liable for any disputes arising from use of another person’s credit card and must be resolved between the applicant and credit card holder. 
If a refund request is made within the deadline date, you are entitled to a refund of a portion of the fees paid for the semester or program period, less a non-refundable withdrawal amount.
IMPORTANT: If you miss the deadline for withdrawal, you are not eligible to receive a refund.
If your withdrawal request is received after the deadline but is due to a serious medical or family emergency outside of your control, you may appeal to the Office of the Registrar for consideration. Official documentation, such as a doctor’s certificate, is required to substantiate any claim of this nature. Please contact the International Centre for more information.
In all cases, the application fee of $110 is non-refundable.
If you were refused a Study Permit, and have requested a refund within the deadline date, you are eligible for a refund, less a non-refundable administrative fee of $100. You must submit the letter of visa refusal from the Canadian visa office at the same time that a refund is being requested.
If you are unable to come due to a delay in the processing of your study permit, you must withdraw from your program before the deadline date by going to this link: International Accepted Students to avoid being charged the full semester’s fees.
There are no refunds for Health Insurance fees after the withdrawal deadline date. Refunds may be issued on or before the deadline date if no claims have been made against the plan.
Material fees for program materials kits already received by students may not be refundable in some cases. This is determined by individual academic departments.
If you are a returning student and decide to continue your program at a later date, please note that IRCC regulations have established new study permit conditions requiring all students to enroll in and actively pursue a course or program of study after arrival in Canada. However, if you have not paid/registered for an upcoming session, you may indicate that you are planning to postpone or skip a semester/session.If you have paid/registered for the upcoming session or semester, you must withdraw from your program before the deadline period and pay the withdrawal fee. If you fail to withdraw before the deadline, you may be charged full semester fees.
If you decide to return to the College at a later date, you must re-apply by completing a Re-Admission Form, providing your current GBC ID, and submitting to your academic department
R115 students who pass the GBC Admissions test, providing entry into a post-secondary program, and who withdraw from R115 before the deadline date, will not be charged a withdrawal fee.
R115 students register per 8-week session. Students who are away from the program for:
In certain very specific circumstances (e.g., a student on a parental work permit or submission of specific Permanent Residency documents), students can request a change from international student fee status to domestic. For fee changes to be approved and take effect all required documentation must be submitted prior to the start of term/program. If documents are received part way through a semester, changes can only be made to future terms and not retroactively.
Changing Fee Status
From an academic standpoint, you may be able to take a break, but you would have to confirm with your academic department to enquire when the second semester is offered again.However, this may not be considered a scheduled break and, therefore, as per Canadian immigration regulations, you would not be eligible to work off-campus during the break. It may also cause issues from a study permit perspective; under the “must actively pursue” clause all study permit holders in Canada must actively pursue studies. This means that:
George Brown College is required to report on a biannual basis to Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) on your continued enrolment status. You may also be asked by an immigration officer to provide evidence of your continued enrolment status. Please check with the International Centre to confirm your individual status. Visit https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/study-canada.html for more informationScheduled breaks are points in the year when you are not required to be in class, such as May-August for most September start programs (exception three-semester post-graduate certificates and some co-op programs). If your program requires you to be registered and in-class for that semester, taking it off would not be considered a scheduled break.
If a student drops one course but maintains full-time status, they do not receive a refund for the course that they dropped or are exempted from. Full-time status is defined as students who are enrolled full-time taking 66 and 2/3% of the required courses for their program/block, or 70% of the program contact hours (defined as instructional or classroom time) in any given semester. It is always a good idea to meet with your academic department before you drop a course, to make sure that there won’t be any impacts on future semesters or if you get an exemption to see if you may be able to pick up another course to take in its place. You can confirm with the Registration Office regarding your full-time status.
During peak periods, we receive a high volume of refund requests, and, therefore, unfortunately, the processing time is about 6 weeks. Refunds are issued by the GBC Finance Department and not the International Centre. We try our best to get refunds out as quickly as possible. It is important for students to provide us with complete information so that we can ensure that there are no delays in processing refunds.
Due to the high volume of refund requests, all cheques are mailed out to students directly. Please make sure that your address is updated in Stu-View to ensure that it is mailed to the correct address. You must notify the International Centre immediately of any changes to your mailing address.
Last Revised: February 27, 2019
DOWNLOAD WITHDRAWAL / REFUND FORM
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.