
George Brown College’s domestic student withdrawal/refund policy complies with the Ministry of Colleges and Universities (MCU) regulations. All applicants and students who have paid for and accepted an offer and/or registered for a place in a GBC program are subject to this policy. The policy applies to all new and returning, full-time, part-time, and co-op students. Prior to withdrawing from your program/course, you are strongly encouraged to speak to an academic advisor, counsellor, or faculty member to explore your options. In many cases, there may be an alternative to withdrawing from college altogether.
To be eligible for a partial refund, you must formally withdraw by one of the following methods prior to the tenth day of classes:
OR
Please note: Not attending classes or simply notifying the professor of your intention to withdraw is not an acceptable notification for program withdrawal. Failure to officially withdraw will result in "DNA" (Did Not Attend) or "F" grades on your final transcript.
If you have applied for an OSAP loan, you must also inform Financial Assistance (OSAP) of your decision to withdraw separately by emailing FinAid@georgebrown.ca.
To be eligible for a partial refund, you must submit your withdrawal request by the tenth day of classes. If you do so, you will receive a full refund of tuition fees for the semester, minus the $500 non-refundable deposit which is applicable to the term of withdrawal.
After the tenth day of classes, students will no longer be eligible for a refund, but may still withdraw from their program until the Last Day to Withdraw from a Program without Academic Penalty. See the Important Dates webpage for the exact date.
Note: Students who withdraw within the academic penalty deadline will still be responsible for any outstanding fees.
If a student’s dropped course(s) results in a maintenance of full-time status, they do not receive a refund for the course that they dropped. Full-time status is defined as students who are enrolled full-time taking 66 and 2/3% of the required courses for their program/block, or 70% of the program contact hours (defined as instructional or classroom time) in any given semester. It is always a good idea to meet with your academic department before you drop a course, to make sure that there won’t be any impacts on future semesters or if you get an exemption to see if you may be able to pick up another course to take in its place within the deadline to add course. You can confirm with the Registration Office regarding your full-time status.
If a student is registered as part-time, there will be an administrative fee of $20.00 charged per course for dropping the course within the withdrawal deadline. See the Important Dates webpage for the exact date.
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.