
A co-op or internship gives students a chance to apply the knowledge they have gained in their program in a workplace, learning hands-on and enhancing their skills. Students gain critical work experience, establish contacts with potential employers and extend their professional network for their future career plans. Co-op Work Experience Terms are paid and Internships are unpaid.
Work Experience offers students the opportunity to:
Work Experience terms are offered year-round. However, the timing and sequencing of Work Experience terms is dependent on the program of study:
* Programs subject to change** Available for 4 or 8 months depending on approval*** Require 420 hrs (full-time or part-time basis)
Find out which programs are eligible and what is required of students. You can also check out frequently asked questions.
Get all the information you need including how to register, required documents, the workflow, and resources.
Discover how to use GBCareers to find a work term. We also explain the job approval process for when you find your own job.
Learn about work permits, timelines and the process for completing work experience as an international student.
See what additional documentation is required to complete a work term out of country.
Are you looking to hire a George Brown student for a co-op or internship? Learn about the benefits and the process.
If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to get in touch with our team.
Co-op General: coopinfo@georgebrown.ca
Co-op Officers:
Scott McKenzie (smckenzi@georgebrown.ca)
Gladys Cafley (gcafley@georgebrown.ca)
Katherine Socha (Katherine.Socha@georgebrown.ca)
Don Christie (dchristie4@georgebrown.ca)
Elizabeth Montes (emontes1@georgebrown.ca)
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.