
Automation. Artificial intelligence. Digitalization. Technological advancements are revolutionizing how we work. What does that mean for you?
Shawne McKeown and Ray Harripaul are exploring the future of work and changes you can expect to see at your job. They’re talking to industry leaders and educators to explore how this massive digital shift could change your career.
Find out what you can do to adapt, evolve and thrive.
You can listen to Work Shift on Apple Podcasts, Google Play, Spotify, and Soundcloud.

Work Shift Podcast· Work Shift - Episode 16 - Streaming is here to stay in the special events industry
The professionals who organize festivals, fundraisers, corporate conferences and more made a quick shift online when the sector shut down. Event organizers and performers were forced to ramp up their technical know-how by exploring new digital platforms and perfecting the art of the live stream. We talk to Paul Araujo, a prof at George Brown's School of Hospitality & Tourism Management, and DJ Starting from Scratch, one of Canada's best-known DJs, about why streaming will remain in their toolkit post-pandemic. 
Work Shift episode 16 transcript

Work Shift Podcast · Work Shift - Episode 15 - What to expect from a career in UX design
The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of smooth and easy-to-use online platforms. And the people who map out and devise these systems—user experience (UX) designers—are in growing demand. We talk to Xavier Masse and Dr. Ana Rita Morais from George Brown College's School of Design, and Peter Sicard, Co-Founder and Partner of Toronto design firm TuesdayAfternoon Media about the importance of UX design and what makes it such an interesting career.
Work Shift episode 15 transcript

Work Shift Podcast · Work Shift - Episode 14 - Your digital colleague
The demand for service robots is growing in many industries. We talk to Rami Wehbe, co-founder and CTO of tech solutions provider GlobalDWS, about why service robots will augment human capacity, not replace it. And, we talk to Toronto restaurateur Tanya Spasic, of Animal Liberation Kitchen, who started using a service robot named Geoffrey to help with deliveries during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Work shift episode 14 transcript

Work Shift Podcast · Work Shift - Episode 13 - Construction vs COVID
We're all thinking more about the buildings we live and work in thanks to COVID-19. We talk to Dr. Chris Willis, a professor and program coordinator at George Brown's Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management, and Andrew Gordon, Principal, Gordon + Gordon Group Inc., about positive changes happening in the construction industry due to COVID-19.
Learn more about The Orbit project Andrew Gordon is involved in at innisfil.ca/orbit.
Work Shift episode 13 transcript

Work Shift Podcast · Work Shift - Episode 12 -The future of post-secondary amid COVID-19
Colleges and universities are facing big challenges amid the COVID-19 pandemic. We talk to higher ed consultant Ken Steele of Eduvation and Dr. Rick Huijbregts, George Brown College's VP of Strategy & Innovation, about how institutions are responding.
Work Shift Episode 12 Transcript
A special episode about how George Brown College made the quick transition to remote working and online program delivery when the COVID-19 pandemic hit. Shawne and Ray talk to Professor Marlene Slopack and Library Services Manager Pearl Raju.
Work Shift Episode 11 Transcript

Are robots coming for your food service job? How are jobs in the hotel and travel sector changing amid a constantly evolving competitor landscape? We talk to Donnalu Macdonald, a professor at George Brown College's School of Hospitality and Tourism Management, and Nolan Schachter, VP, Customer Success at the food service robotics company Chowbotics.

Ceit Butler is a blockchain architect and consultant. She's also a professor and the program coordinator for George Brown College's Blockchain Development program. She tells Shawne and Ray about the surging demand for Blockchain professionals and the massive growth potential for this technology.

Shawne and Ray chat with RBC's Director of Early Talent Acquisition Brien Convery and George Brown College's Director of Work-Integrated Learning & Experiential Education Dario Guescini about how work placement opportunities for students have evolved and why on-the-job training for students is so important when it comes to the future of work.

Shawne and Ray talk to George Brown College Professor Richard Almonte and SkillsCamp Co-Founder Bailey Parnell about why soft skills (also called human skills or transferrable skills) are more important than ever in order to land a job and keep it. 

Shawne and Ray discuss the future of higher education with George Brown College President Anne Sado and Microsoft Canada's Director of Education Strategy and Learning Solutions Lia De Cicco-Remu.

Shawne and Ray sit down with internationally acclaimed author and economic and social theorist Jeremy Rifkin to talk about what we can expect for the future of work amid a third industrial revolution and the climate crisis.

How do you handle change at work? Shawne and Ray talk to Claudette McGowan, Chief Information Officer, Enterprise Technology, Employee Experience at BMO, about how to adapt and thrive in a world of rapidly evolving tech.
Learn more about Claudette McGowan.

Shawne and Ray speak with Tracey Britt, George Brown College business professor and certified financial planner, and Claudette McGowan, CIO, Enterprise Technology, Employee Experience, BMO, about tech and trends disrupting the banking and financial services industries.

Shawne and Ray speak with Dr. Cory Ross, VP, Academic at George Brown College, about exciting new jobs that could transform the health care sector, and how technology won’t jeopardize the human touch in health care.
Read Cory's bio.

Shawne and Ray speak with Dr. Rick Huijbregts, Vice President, Strategy & Innovation at George Brown College, about new technology and trends that are revolutionizing how we work.
Follow Dr. Rick on Twitter.

 
Do you have feedback, an idea or question you'd like to share? Reach us at workshift@georgebrown.ca
Learn more about our land acknowledgment
Be kept in the loop about application deadlines, college news, upcoming events, tours and more.
Sign Up Now


416-415-2000
TTY: 1-877-515-5559
ask.george@georgebrown.ca
Visit Our Social Media Hub
Visit Our Social Media Hub
The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.