Academic Upgrading Program for Deaf and Hard of Hearing Adults Program (A752)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Academic Upgrading Program for Deaf and Hard of Hearing Adults
Code:
A752
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 to 5 semesters depending on student’s goal
Starting Months:
Open enrolment
Domestic Tuition:
There are no fees. This program is funded by Employment Ontario through the Ministry of Labour, Training and Skills Development (MLTSD)
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Work & College Preparation
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Continuous Open Enrollment
Not Available
Winter
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Not Available
Spring
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
American Sign Language and Deaf Studies (C114)
Academic Upgrading (A751)
Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English) (C302)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
George Brown College is a leader in education and educational services for Deaf and hard-of-hearing staff and students offering
Academic Upgrading Program for Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing Adults (A752)
– the only college-based Academic Upgrading program in Toronto with all courses taught in American Sign Language (ASL).
Program Overview
George Brown College’s Academic Upgrading for Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing Adults (A752)
is the only college-based Academic Upgrading program in Toronto that teaches all course material in American Sign Language (ASL). This tuition-free program is for Deaf and hard-of-hearing students who want to upgrade their English, ASL and math for success in further education, training or employment. A transportation subsidy is available for qualifying students.
This program is funded by Employment Ontario through the Ministry of Labour, Training and Skills Development (MLTSD).
Academic Upgrading students will have the choice to take some courses either in-person (on-campus) or online, subject to availability. Registered students who are regularly attending the program, may be eligible to receive a transportation subsidy, a netbook and/or monthly Internet device.
Full Description
George Brown College's Academic Upgrading Program for Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing Adults (A752)
is a tuition-free program designed for Deaf and hard-of-hearing students who want to upgrade their English, ASL and math for success in further education and/or employment.
All courses are taught in American Sign Language (ASL). Each course is specifically geared to the needs and interests of Deaf and hard-of-hearing students.
Courses are offered at the following levels:
Math:
Academic and Career Entrance (ACE) Workplace Math
ACE Business Math (grade 12C equivalent course for college admission purposes)
ACE Apprenticeship Math (grade 12C equivalent course for college or apprenticeship admission purposes)
ACE Technology Math (grade 12C equivalent course for college admission purposes)
American Sign Language (ASL)
American Sign Language I
Communications
pre-foundations
foundations
The program has intakes in January and September. Acceptance is based on an ASL and English assessment and interview.
This program is funded by Employment Ontario through the Ministry of Labour, Training and Skills Development (MLTSD).
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Courses
Required Courses
Courses will vary depending on students’ goals and their current level of study.
Code
Course name
ENGL 7071
Pre-Foundations Communications
ENGL 7073
Foundations Communications
ENGL 7075
Pre-Ace Communications
MATH 7068
ACE Workplace Mathematics
MATH 7070
Pre-Ace Mathematics
MATH 7072
Financial Literacy
MATH 7136
ACE Mathematics for Business
MATH 7137
ACE Mathematics for Apprenticeship
MATH 7138
ACE Math for Technology
ASL 7000
American Sign Language – ASL 1
ASL 7001
Academic ASL
PREP 7139
Learning Strategies
PREP 7142
Career and Life Planning
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
Every Ontario community college program is designed to deliver a set of specific program learning outcomes. Program learning outcomes are statements that describe the knowledge and skills that students are expected to demonstrate by the end of their program of study.
Programs are designed to deliver both vocation or discipline-specific learning outcomes and more generic essential employability skills (including communication, numeracy, critical thinking and problem-solving, information management, interpersonal and personal skills).
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
There are no fees. This program is funded by Employment Ontario through the Ministry of Labour, Training and Skills Development (MLTSD)
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Admission testing and interview, demonstrating proficiency in American Sign Language (ASL) and English.
This program is for Deaf and hard-of-hearing students who use American Sign Language and are 19 years of age or older.
How to Apply
To apply for the Deaf Academic Upgrading Program,
complete your application form
.
Contact Us
The Academic Upgrading Program for Deaf and hard-of-hearing adults' office is located within the
School of Work and College Preparation
. The office is located at 341 King Street East on the 6th floor (St. James Campus, “H” building), Toronto, Ontario.
Intake staff can be reached via email at
deafupgrading@georgebrown.ca.
To apply for the Deaf Academic Upgrading Program,
complete your application form
.
Visit Our Campus
Learn more about our other Deaf Academic Upgrading program area,
Deaf Learn Now
.
Explore related programs:
American Sign Language and Deaf Studies (C114)
Academic Upgrading (A751)
Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English) (C302)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.