Academic Upgrading Program (A751)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Academic Upgrading
Code:
A751
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Part-time
Duration:
1 to 3 semesters depending on student’s goals
Starting Months:
February, April, June, August, October, December
Domestic Tuition:
There are no fees. This program is funded by Employment Ontario through the Ministry of Labour, Training and Skills Development (MLTSD).
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Work & College Preparation
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Choice
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Continuous Open Enrollment
Not Available
Winter
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Not Available
Spring
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Providing Academic Upgrading for over 50 years.
Program Overview
George Brown College's Academic Upgrading (A751)
is a tuition-free program that will help improve your reading, writing, math and science skills. It is an ideal program if you are English-speaking, have not yet completed high school credits, but are interested in pursing college-level post-secondary studies, further skills training, apprenticeship or employment. We offers several intakes each year with full-time and part-time study options available.
Prior to starting (A751), you will be required to complete a reading and writing assessment to determine your suitability and placement in the program.
Beginning Fall 2022, students will have the choice between courses offered in-person and online, subject to availability. Registered students who are regularly attending the program may be eligible to receive a transportation subsidy, a netbook and/or monthly Internet device.
Full Description
George Brown College’s Academic Upgrading (A751)
is a free program that will help you upgrade your skills in communications, math and science to prepare for college-level post-secondary programs, apprenticeship or employment.
About the Academic Upgrading Program:
free program funded by the Employment Ontario branch of the Ministry of Labour, Training and Skills Development (MLTSD)
as an enrolled student, you will have access to advising services (academic advising and career counselling) and may be eligible for a transportation allowance
flexible program delivery with both full-time and part-time study options available
runs year-round with classes starting every seven weeks
you will create an individualized learning plan to support your life, academic and career goals
the length of your program will vary based on your initial academic assessment, specific goals and individual progress
each program intake begins with a one-day online orientation session
PLEASE NOTE: Prior to starting this program, you will be required to complete a reading and writing assess
ment to determine your literacy levels and program eligibility. The assessment results will determine your level of study.
We offer several Academic Upgrading program streams to support your individual goals and to meet your  level of academic readiness.
Levels of Study Offered
Communications courses:
Foundations
ACE (Academic and Career Entrance, grade 12C equivalent course for college admission purposes)
Pre-ACE
Personal and Professional Exploration (ACE level course designed to solidify student plans for college and careers)
Math courses:
ACE Business Math (grade 12C equivalent course for college admission purposes)
ACE Apprenticeship Math (grade 12C equivalent course for college or Apprenticeship admission purposes)
ACE Technology Math (grade 12C equivalent course for college admission purposes)
Science courses:
physics, chemistry and biology (only offered at the ACE level for college admission purposes)
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Educational Pathways
This program is designed to help you prepare for college while at college. The courses and educational pathways you pursue will be designed to help meet your individual goals, timelines and needs. By completing courses in this program, you can earn Academic and Career Entrance (ACE), grade 12 “C” equivalent credits, to apply for any program offered at an Ontario Community College.
Courses
Required Courses
Courses will vary depending on students’ goals and their current level of study.
Code
Course name
BIOL 7104
ACE – Biology
CHEM 7104
ACE – Chemistry
PHY 7104
ACE – Physics
COMP 7101
ACE Computer Studies
COMP 7041
LBS Computer Studies
ENGL 7028
Foundations Communications
ENGL 7030
Pre-ACE – Communications
ENGL 7076
Communications Grammar Support
ENGL 7101
ACE Communications
MATH 7101
ACE Math for Technology
MATH 7102
ACE Math for Apprenticeship
MATH 7103
ACE Math for Business
PREP 7133
Communications Support
PREP 7160
Orientation
PREP 7138
ACE Personal and Professional Exploration
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
Every Ontario community college program is designed to deliver a set of specific program learning outcomes. Program learning outcomes are statements that describe the knowledge and skills that students are expected to demonstrate by the end of their program of study.
Programs are designed to deliver both vocation or discipline-specific learning outcomes and more generic essential employability skills (including communication, numeracy, critical thinking and problem-solving, information management, interpersonal and personal skills).
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
There are no fees. This program is funded by Employment Ontario through the Ministry of Labour, Training and Skills Development (MLTSD).
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
resident of Ontario
admission assessment
fluency in English
mature student status (19 years of age or older)
Suitable for adults seeking to pursue post-secondary (college), employment or apprenticeship.
How to Apply
George Brown College’s Academic Upgrading program offers intakes into the program every seven weeks. Live information sessions are held biweekly and everyone is welcome to attend a session to determine if this program is right for them in preparing for their post-secondary, employment or apprenticeship goals.
Have more questions? Attend an information session
For information on upcoming information sessions, please
register here
.
To apply for the Academic Upgrading Program,
complete your application form
.
In order to apply for Academic Upgrading, all learners will complete a reading and writing assessment. Appointments for assessments are made during the information session. Assessment sessions are booked weekly throughout the year as space permits.
Contact Us
For more information, call 416-415-5000, ext. 3560 or email
upgradinginfo@georgebrown.ca
.
To apply for the Academic Upgrading Program,
complete your application form
.
CHOICES
Want to explore different options for post-secondary programs and careers?
Join our free week-long
CHOICES
class, offered at St. James Campus. To learn more, visit our
CHOICES
page, or email
choices@georgebrown.ca
.
MSAP
Are you interested in writing the
Mature Student Assessment
? Take our free three-week Mature Student Assessment Preparation class, offered throughout the year.
Register online
or email
msap@georgebrown.ca
.
U-LEVEL
Are you thinking of
applying to a degree program
at George Brown College but are missing a prerequisite course? Register for our
Degree Bridging (U-level) courses
. Courses are tuition-free and offered throughout the year in English, math, sciences and biology. These courses are accepted by George Brown College and Curriculum Services Canada as U-level equivalent courses for entrance to George Brown degree programs
(courses currently not accepted for entrance to Ryerson BScN program and course credits are not transferrable to universities or other institutions).
Register here
.
ACE DISTANCE
Want to upgrade for post-secondary or apprenticeships online?
ACE level classes in math, sciences, computers and communications are available online through our
ACE Distance Program
.
DAUP
Are you Deaf or hard of hearing?
George Brown also offers
Academic Upgrading for Deaf and hard-of-hearing adults
.
If you are a Deaf or hard-of-hearing adult and would like to study online, you can join
Deaf Learn Now
.
Visit Our Campus
Learn more about our other Academic Upgrading program areas
including Choices, Mature Student Assessment Preparation and Degree Bridging classes.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.