Advanced Wine and Beverage Business Management Program (Postgraduate) (H414)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Advanced Wine and Beverage Business Management
Code:
H414
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 semesters
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$7,206.00 *
International Tuition:
$28,672.00 **
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Hospitality & Tourism Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing, and that is why we have incorporated work-integrated learning opportunities into all CHCA programs.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Food and Beverage Management – Restaurant Management (H132)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Do you want to be a wine, spirits and beer professional? Then realize your potential through our specialized postgraduate program. This program provides a distinct opportunity to learn from the best. A faculty team with a reputation for excellence supports our students. Our faculty are connected to local, national and internationally recognized industry leaders. Located in the heart of downtown Toronto, George Brown puts you at the centre of the hospitality industry in Canada.
Full Description
Advanced Wine and Beverage Business Management is a one-year, three-semester postgraduate program developed for hospitality diploma and degree graduates, and industry professionals seeking an advanced level of learning focused on all aspects of the wine, spirits and beer business.
In our state-of-the-art tasting labs, students will explore and experience global beverages and their relationship to business, cuisine, culture and lifestyle.
This program will provide you with an advanced level of knowledge in beer, wine, spirits and mixology, and also teach you essential business skills such as financial management, organizational behaviour and strategic marketing – all vital to succeed in today’s competitive marketplace.
Successful graduates will earn three additional certifications:
Wine & Spirit Education Trust® (WSET®)
Level 2, and
Prud’homme
Beer Certification® Levels 1 & 2. Students will also have an opportunity to earn the WSET 3 if the final exam is fully passed. These certifications are built into the program curriculum, allowing students to earn additional credentials as well as their Ontario College Graduate Certificate.
Our curriculum prepares you to be industry-ready for the most demanding beverage positions with product knowledge, experiential learning and business acumen.
Your Field Education Options
This program provides a mandatory 14-week externship placement. George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the learning outcomes of the program. This valuable work experience can be added to your resumé.
CHCA students can also participate in several short study abroad opportunities. Our options change often, but in recent years have included France, Scotland, Spain and trips across Canada. Some trips are purely experiential learning, while others provide you with the opportunity to receive credit for a course in your program. When international travel allows, CHCA students can participate in study abroad experiences.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
This program will provide you with advanced professional knowledge of beverages matched with essential business, management and communication skills that prepare you for an abundance of exciting opportunities in Toronto and across the globe.
Depending on experience and areas of interest, graduates can pursue rewarding hospitality careers as:
beverage directors
sales agents
territory managers
product consultants
brand ambassadors
wine stewards/cellar masters
wine country tour guides
specialty retail operations
portfolio managers
merchandising/inventory co-ordinators
Industry
The beverage alcohol industry has been the strongest-performing industry sector of the last few years and continues to experience record growth.
Educational Pathways
Can enter this program from a variety of pathways, including a diploma or bachelor's degree in Food and Beverage Management, Hotel Management, Tourism and Hospitality Management, Special Event Management or a related area. This program is scheduled in a way to allow industry professionals to continue to work while completing the program
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOST 1141
Intermediate Wine – WSET Level 2
HOST 1142
Human Resources Practices
HOST 1143
Strategic Marketing for the Beverage Industry
HOST 1144
Beer School: Level 1 & 2 Prud'homme Beer Certification
HOST 1154
Financial Beverage Management
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HOST 1151
Advanced Wine – WSET Level 3
HOST 1152
Advanced Mixology
HOST 1153
Food and Beverage Pairing and Operations
HOST 1155
Wine and Beverage Business Development
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
HOST 1162
Externship/Field Placement
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Manage different departments within food-and-beverage-centred or sales environments using product knowledge, menu development and business acumen skills.
Position products appropriately in the market using established techniques in wine merchandising, product pricing, labelling, branding, advertising, promotions, marketing, public relations, media relations and consumer behaviour in the wine industry.
Interpret import and export regulations and recognize opportunities and challenges within the business structures of the wine industry.
Manage and control different aspects of wine-related enterprises to make effective decisions regarding finance, accounting, budget planning, costing, taxation systems and pricing structures in the wine industry, using analytical and synthesis skills.
Implement and develop leadership and human resources skills required in the beverage business, which include recruitment, motivational strategies, resolution of labour-relations issues and the management of related challenges and responsibilities, including culturally sensitive material.
Use current and relevant business strategies to facilitate a sustainable hospitality entity.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,206.00 *
International Tuition
$28,672.00 **
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the three semesters of program starting in
Fall 2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the three semesters of the program starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
Included in material fees is a uniform; black pants, grey Oxford shirt and a bib apron.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
A diploma or bachelor's degree in Food and Beverage Management, Hotel Management, Tourism and Hospitality Management, Special Event Management or a related area.
Applicants who do not have the required academic credentials but are current industry professionals with a minimum one year of industry experience and a strong understanding of industry standards will be selected through an interview at the School of Hospitality and Tourism Management (resumé required).
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English Assessment to be considered for admission. In addition, applicants who are accepted based on work experience only will be required to take the English Admissions Assessment in order to evaluate the appropriate level of English language proficiency.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens including nuts, dairy and shellfish are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
Advanced Wine and Beverage Business Management (postgraduate) (H414)
For general School of Hospitality and Tourism Management related inquiries, please contact
chcastudentsupport@georgebrown.ca.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Food and Beverage Management – Restaurant Management (H132)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.