Advanced French Patisserie Program (Postgraduate) (H413)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Advanced French Patisserie
Code:
H413
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 semesters
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$15,046.00 * ‡
International Tuition:
$34,381.00 ** ‡
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing, and that is why we have incorporated work-integrated learning opportunities into all CHCA programs.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Not Available
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 3: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Baking and Pastry Arts Management (H113)
Baker / Patissier Apprentice Program (H600)
Culinary Arts – Italian (Postgraduate) (H411)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Acquire the techniques that make French pastries famous around the world. Experience the special connection between food and life in France. Embrace the patisserie experiences and courses in French art and culture that will deepen your understanding of this great tradition. The Advanced French Patisserie postgraduate program delivers this and more.
Full Description
Do you want to learn French patisserie? Join this specialized French pastry and culture program, learn from the experts here in Canada and then live, learn and gain work experience in France!
Through this program, you will:
Experience hands-on learning in both Canada and France with pre-eminent French chef professors in the country.
Build your knowledge of French pastry and culinary traditions and embrace emerging trends in French pastry.
Benefit from our partnership with
École Nationale Supérieure de Pâtisserie (ENSP)
, the world-famous Ducasse school, one of France’s finest pastry chef schools.
Experience the vineyards, cheese producers and local markets of France as your open-air classroom.
Study in some of the best patisseries, bakeries, restaurants and hotels, where you will get attention, training and an inspiring experience.
After your experiences in France, demonstrate what you’ve learned through events, placements and showcasing your newly acquired skills back at George Brown College. Our faculty already have a reputation for excellence among French patisseries in Toronto and globally and this program and its unique opportunities will make you a sought-after employee when you graduate.
Program Schedule
The schedule for the Advanced French Patisserie postgraduate program currently operates from Monday to Friday.
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Your Field Education Options
Benefit from our partnership with École Nationale Supérieure de Pâtisserie (ENSP) for an externship in France. George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the learning outcomes of the program. This valuable work experience can be added to your resumé.
In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide learning opportunities with real-world challenges and clients.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
A knowledge of French patisserie techniques opens up an abundance of opportunities in Toronto, and around the world. All these options mean you’ll have a dynamic and varied career. This program prepares students for a global workplace and offers a unique pathway for international education and work experience.
After students complete their studies and placements in France, they will return to Canada with much stronger skills, a richer understanding of local and sustainable ways of working and the international experience much sought after by industry.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOSF 4021
Advanced French Pastry – Theory & Practical (*Part 1)
HOSF 4025
French Language
HOSF 4027
Gastronomy
HOSF 4031
Advanced French Pastry II (*IN FRANCE)
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HOSF 4032
Externship (* IN FRANCE)
HOSF 4021
Advanced French Pastry II (*Part 2)
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
HOSF 1170
The Slow Food Experience
HOSF 4042
Patisserie Capstone
HOSF 4026
Art and Design
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Apply techniques such as reconstituting, revising, laminating and assembling to traditional French pastry and baking, using emerging trends in the French patisserie.
Converse in basic French and use correct terminology within a food service operation.
Identify the holistic practices in French gastronomy through field education and/or gastronomic theory.
Prepare French pastries and baked goods within Canadian and EU health, safety and nutrition regulations, standards, guidelines and processes.
Develop unique baking, pastry or confectionery product and manage the commercialization and marketing of that product.
Manage the production, sales and business aspects of a personally created line of French pastries and baked goods.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$15,046.00 * ‡
International Tuition
$34,381.00 ** ‡
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, ancillary fees, student service and materials (includes accommodation at École Nationale Supérieure de Pâtisserie†) for the three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees (includes accommodation at École Nationale Supérieure de Pâtisserie†) for the three semesters of the program starting in Spring
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice.
‡ Additional Cost
Description
Cost
Uniform
$290
Black safety shoes
$110- $160
Knives and small wares
$500–$700
Airfare to France †(approximate)
$1,400–$1,800
†(approximate) (based on exchange rate, applicable taxes). Fees do not include transfer costs to placements.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
diploma or bachelor's degree in Baking, Pastry Arts or Culinary Management
OR
one-year certificate in Baking, Pastry Arts, Patisserie Apprenticeship AND a minimum one-year of relevant work experience (resumé and references required)
OR
a diploma or bachelor's degree in an unrelated field AND a minimum of one-year full-time relevant work experience (resumé and references required)
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English language proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Students are required to have valid WHMIS and Sanitation certification prior to the start of the program. If you do not have these certifications you are required to arrange completion of them, at your own expense. Please contact the Program Coordinator for further information.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens, including nuts, dairy and shellfish are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
ADVANCED FRENCH PATISSERIE (H413)
For general Chef School inquiries, please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Baking and Pastry Arts Management (H113)
Baker / Patissier Apprentice Program (H600)
Culinary Arts – Italian (Postgraduate) (H411)
Meet Delna Patel a graduate of both the Baking and Pastry Arts Management and Advanced French Patisserie Programmes, Delna was exposed to state of the art learning spaces, Faculty with global industry experience as well as a once in a lifetime opportunity to study and work in France. Listen to Delna speak about how her journey at George Brown College allowed her to turn her love of chocolate into a rewarding career as a Chocolatier.
Delna Patel
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.