American Sign Language and Deaf Studies Program (C114)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
American Sign Language and Deaf Studies
Code:
C114
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,792.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,814.00 **
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Deaf & Deafblind Studies
Location:
Online
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Online
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English) (C302)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This American Sign Language (ASL) and Deaf Studies program is unique in Ontario.
Program Overview
George Brown College's American Sign Language and Deaf Studies (C114)
program is delivered online and is open to both Deaf and non-Deaf students. This program provides intensive training in American Sign Language (ASL) and English. If you are thinking about entering the Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (ASL – English) program, or if you want to combine ASL with another career, this program is highly recommended. This program is unique in Ontario.
Full Description
George Brown College's American Sign Language and Deaf Studies (C114)
is an online program open to both Deaf and non-deaf students.
This program provides intensive preparation in:
American Sign Language (ASL) and English
an orientation to Deaf culture
current social issues affecting Deaf people
The curriculum combines:
opportunities to learn and practice ASL
online learning about the structure and features of ASL
Students will have the opportunity to:
learn, understand and participate in basic conversations in ASL
develop stronger skills in spoken and written English
develop a beginning understanding of the role within the Deaf/ASL Community
Your Field Education Options
Although there is no field placement requirement in the American Sign Language and Deaf Studies program, students will have the opportunity to practise through simulation experiences in the classroom.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
ASL skills facilitate communication with Deaf people
in a wide variety of health-care, business, educational and social service settings.
Fluency in ASL is an asset for anyone who interacts with members of the Deaf community or with the general public.
To broaden employment prospects, combine this ASL certificate program with:
early childhood education
teaching
nursing
counselling
communications and law
other diplomas and degrees
Note that this program does
not
prepare you to be an ASL-English Interpreter, Deaf Culture Instructor, or ASL Instructor. Should students wish to pursue this profession, we encourage C114 graduates who meet program requirements to apply for the
Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English) (C302) program
at George Brown College.
Educational Pathways
Graduates of the American Sign Language and Deaf Studies program may apply to the
Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English) (C302)
program at George Brown or similar programs at other colleges if they wish to become American Sign Language-English Interpreters.
This program is recommended for students interested in the
Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English) (C302)
.
They may also apply to George Brown's
Deafblind & Intervenor Studies (C158)
one-year certificate program.
Graduates of this program may also apply to programs at George Brown College or similar programs at other colleges to further pursue a non-related career.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
COMM 1022
English Foundations for ASL Students
SIGN 1056
Introduction to Anti-Oppressive Practice
SIGN 1057
ASL Immersion I
SIGN 1058
ASL Seminar I
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
SIGN 1063
Signed Language Communities
SIGN 1064
ASL Immersion II
SIGN 1065
ASL Seminar II
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Communicate effectively in oral and written English.
Express and receive messages accurately in routine conversations using American Sign Language.
Apply basic knowledge of Deaf culture, the Deaf community and the interpreter profession.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,792.00 *
International Tuition
$17,814.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Deaf and Deafblind Studies
Email:
communityservices@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Erika Stebbings, ASL & Deaf Studies Program Co-ordinator
Email:
erika.stebbings@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College:
Contact George Brown College
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English) (C302)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
"The American Sign Language and Deaf Studies program at George Brown is a tremendous program whose rewards equal the effort that any participant invests in it. I was able to progress from knowing minimal ASL to being accepted into the Honours Bachelor of Interpretation program, also at George Brown College. The professors are generous, wonderful teachers who are patient but also ready to push eager students to achieve their goals. I highly recommend this program as a means to gaining insight into the fascinating and inspiring world of Deaf Culture in Canada through a key point of entry: American Sign Language." ​
Kate Alton
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.