Applied A.I. Solutions Development Program (Postgraduate) (T431)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Applied A.I. Solutions Development
Code:
T431
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$8,617.00 * ‡
International Tuition:
$17964.00 ** ‡
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Computer Technology
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Mandatory Co-op or Work Integrated Project
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus; Semester 3: Co-op
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
The Applied A.I. Solutions Development program is one of the first of its kind to be offered by a Canadian college. Developed by George Brown College's School of Computer Technology, it recognizes the industry demand for full stack data scientists who are qualified to fill the roles of data scientist, data analyst, data engineer or machine learning engineer as needed, and also apply business analysis skills to effectively communicate how artificial intelligence/machine learning/deep learning can be used in business models.
Program Overview
This exciting new program instills you with knowledge that spans the fields of computer science, mathematics and business to prepare you to deliver innovative artificial intelligence (A.I.), machine learning, deep learning and data science/data analytics solutions for an ever-expanding range of industry applications.
The program will focus on combining the three disciplines (computer science, math, business) with a design-thinking approach to produce machine-learning/deep-learning models and intuitive dashboards to communicate results and findings. As a student in this program, you are also given preparatory training and simulated experiences in tailoring their presentations to various target audiences including technical, business and investors.
Full Description
As we advance further into this increasingly digital world, artificial intelligence and data science will revolutionize most industries by optimizing business processes and automating decision-making in many white-collar jobs. As a student in the Applied A.I. Solutions Development program, you will gain the skills needed to provide existing businesses and emerging startups with the tools required to thrive in the digital revolution.
This three-semester graduate certificate program uses a hands-on, applied approach to the field of A.I., giving you the broad range of skills needed to excel in this rapidly growing industry.
It teaches the development and application of machine-learning/deep-learning models and provides a fundamental understanding of the underlying mathematical algorithms that power them. This combination of knowledge and skills will allow you to identify and select appropriate algorithms for a given use, build and fine-tune models and visualize and effectively communicate the resulting data, thereby bridging the traditional roles of data scientist, machine-learning engineer and business translator.
Technology Requirements
This program requires students to have access to a personal computer with the following specifications:
8 GB minimum (16 GB RAM recommended0
256 GB SSD Hard Drive (500+ GB is optimal)
Quad-core i5/i7 2.4GHz or better
Webcam
Your Field Education Options
In semester 3, students complete a Work Integrated Project, or qualified students are eligible for co-op. Learn more about how to qualify, apply, and important dates for co-op on the
Centre for Arts, Design & Information Technology Experiential Learning
page.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program may apply for positions that include:
data scientist
data analyst
data management specialist
machine-learning engineer
machine-learning technologist
artificial intelligence practitioner
full-stack data scientist (who is qualified to fill all of the above roles)
Educational Pathways
Pathways for incoming students may be developed with programs that expose students to code development, algebra, statistics, probability and calculus, including:
G102 Graphic Design
G113 Interaction Design
G301 Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design
T147 Computer Systems Technology
T163 Game – Programming
T175 Blockchain Development
T177 Computer Programming and Analysis
T405 Information Systems Business Analysis Program (with Experiential Learning Capstone)
T430 Mobile Application Development and Strategy
T445 Cloud Computing Technologies Program (Postgraduate)
computer science (university level)
computer engineering (university level)
Courses
Required Courses
PRINTABLE CURRICULUM PLANNER 2023-2024
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
AASD 4000
Machine Learning I
AASD 4001
Applied Mathematical Concepts for Machine Learning
AASD 4002
Foundations of Data Management
AASD 4003
Ethics and Law for Data Science
AASD 4004
Machine Learning II
AASD 4008
Big Data Tools and Techniques I
AASD 4006
Data Visualization Techniques
AASD 4007
Design Thinking for AI Solutions
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
AASD 4010
Deep Learning I
AASD 4011
Applied Mathematical Concepts for Deep Learning
AASD 4009
Big Data Tools and Techniques II
AASD 4013
Agile Project Management Methodologies
AASD 4014
Deep Learning II
AASD 4015
Advanced Applied Mathematical Concepts for Deep Learning
AASD 4016
Full Stack Data Science Systems
AASD 4017
Presenting Data Science-driven Solutions
COMP 4064
Career Planning and Portfolio Development
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
TCOP 4020
Co-op
OR
AASD 4020
Work-Integrated Project
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Identify, evaluate and manage relevant data sources to support data analytics and to meet organizational needs.
Recommend different systems, architectures and data storage technologies to support data-driven solutions.
Develop and deploy complete machine learning/deep learning production systems for a variety of industry use cases that meet the needs of a specific operational/business process.
Assess and apply appropriate mathematical models, algorithms, tools and frameworks to develop A.I.-enabled, industry-specific solutions.
Design and present A.I. solutions effectively to stakeholders through the use of data visualizations.
Apply legal, ethical, privacy and security-related standards and considerations in data science projects in a manner that protects privacy and confidentiality, addresses data bias and transparency and ensures data integrity.
Implement artificial intelligence systems on time and budget using best practices and strategies in design thinking, project management and lifecycle management.
Design artificial intelligence (A.I.) systems through the application of systematic approaches and methodologies to meet growing organizational needs.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$8,617.00 * ‡
International Tuition
$17964.00 ** ‡
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of the program starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
**
Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
‡ Semester 3, fees will consist of either a $500 fee for co-op placement or a variable fee for the work-integrated project, neither of which are included in the total listed above.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Diploma or bachelor's degree in Information Technology, Computer Science or a related field.
•Applicants with a diploma or bachelor’s degree in an unrelated field will be required to provide additional information as requested from the Academic Department (questionnaire).
Note: This will be determined through a review of transcripts, resumé and an online interview (if applicable).
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide
English language proficiency test results
must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges
.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Computer Technology
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4287
Email:
computertechnology@georgebrown.ca
The office hours are:
Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Program Co-ordinator: Moe Fadaee
Email:
Moe.Fadaee@georgebrown.ca
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 3229
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
The Applied A.I. Solutions Development program is offered through our
School of Computer Technology
from our
Casa Loma Campus
at
146 Kendal Avenue
. Sign up for an
information session
or
campus tour
to learn more about George Brown College and the program. You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.