Architectural Technician Program (T132)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Architectural Technician
Code:
T132
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,288.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,828.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Architectural Studies
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus; Semester 3: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 4, 6: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Architectural Technology (T109)
Interior Design (T178)
Civil Engineering Technology (T164)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This 2-year program is eligible for
a $40,000 scholarship.
*
This two-year Architectural Technician program will prepare you to work alongside architects, designers, contractors and builders. As an architectural technician, you can participate in the design and development of the buildings that define our living and working environments using sustainable building practices and constructability techniques.
*Domestic students only — see page for details.
Full Description
Learning in state-of-the-art architectural studios with the most up-to-date equipment and software, you will develop a thorough knowledge of architectural drawing and technical design skills, as well as an understanding of sustainable building design and construction materials grounded in current green principles.
Courses cover 2D and 3D computer-aided drafting, design, rendering and modelling, design and development drawings, construction drawings and architectural presentation. You will also learn and apply the concepts of building science, building systems, building codes and construction law. Teamwork in a project-based learning environment is emphasized.
Note: If you enroll in the program in January, you are required to complete semester 2 in the summer (May to August) of the same year to continue into semester 3 in the fall.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Your Career
Graduates find employment in many areas of the Architectural, Engineering and Construction (AEC) industry, working as technical assistants in the AEC or the building industry. As an architectural technician, you participate in the teams that produce design drawings, construction drawings, digital modelling and fabrication drawings.
In addition to the architectural and construction industries, Architectural Technician graduates work as technical sales representatives and manufacturing technicians for product manufacturers and building material suppliers. Technicians may also be provided with opportunities within government building departments.
Career Options
Opportunities for architectural technicians vary within the AEC industry. Career options available to graduates of this program may include, but are not limited to, the following:
project coordinator
technical representative for building/equipment suppliers
production of computer-aided technical drawings and modelling
developer
property manager
technician with builders/developers
customer service agent with builders/developers
site supervisor
Future Study Options
This program shares the first four semesters with the three-year Architectural Technology program (T109) and graduates may qualify to transfer with advanced standing into the third year of the
Architectural Technology program (T109)
.
This program shares the first two semesters with the three-year Interior Design Technology program (T170) and graduates may qualify to transfer with advanced standing into the second year of the
Interior Design Technology program (T170)
.
Pathways to the Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) degree program are also available from the three-year Architectural Technology program. For more information, see
georgebrown.ca/Diploma to Degree page
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
ARCH 1005
Architectural Technology & Studio 1
ARCH 1014
Canadian Industry Practices
ARCH 1048
Structural Systems 1
ARCH 1050
Visual Communications 1
ARCH 1060
Design Fundamentals
CADE 1012
CAD Drawing 1
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH 1139
Mathematics for Arch/IDT 1
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
ARCH 1006
Architectural Technology & Studio 2
ARCH 1013
Building Code & Regulations 1
ARCH 1070
Materials, Methods & Components 1
CADE 1014
CAD Drawing 2
ARCH 1109
Building Systems – Mechanical and Electrical
ARCH 1164
Fundamentals Of Building Science
MATH 1149
Mathematics for Arch/IDT 2
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
ARCH 1058
Structural Systems 2
ARCH 2004
Architectural Technology & Studio 3
ARCH 2007
Building Code & Regulations 2
ARCH 2009
Practice Management
ARCH 2010
History Of Architectural and Building Technology
CADE 2001
Digital Practices for Architecture 1
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
ARCH 2005
Architectural Technology & Studio 4
ARCH 2033
Visual Communications 2
ARCH 2034
Structural Systems 3
ARCH 2035
Materials, Methods & Components 2
ARCH 3017
Building Code & Regulations 3
ARCH 3037
Project Cost Estimating
CADE 3001
Digital Practices for Architecture 2
COMM 1113
Professional Communications for Building Technologies
GNED
General Education Elective
**Based on the results of your placement tests, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Communicate with clients, contractors, other building professionals and approval authorities.
Assist in the preparation, reading and interpretation of drawings, and other graphical representations used in building projects.
Read and assist in the preparation of specifications and other project documents used in design and construction.
Assist in the preparation of estimates of time, costs and quantity.
Assist in solving technical problems related to building projects through the application of principles of building science and mathematics.
Collaborate with members of the building team.
Assist in the development of architectural designs.
Review and assist in the preparation of site-planning documents.
Comply with the legal and ethical requirements of an architectural technician in the practice of building design and construction.
Assist in the assessment of buildings related to repurposing and renovation projects.
Ensure personal safety in the workplace.
Identify sustainable design and building practices.
Use current and emerging technology to support building projects.
Assist in the administration of the construction phase of building projects.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,288.00 *
International Tuition
$17,828.00 **
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Architectural Studies
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4365
Email:
architecturalstudies@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room D303
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Architectural Technology (T109)
Interior Design (T178)
Civil Engineering Technology (T164)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.