Bachelor of Business Administration (Trades Management) (Honours) (Pathway Business Trades) Program (B305)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Bachelor of Business Administration (Trades Management) (Honours) (Pathway Business Trades)
Code:
B305
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Online
Duration:
5 semesters (up to 8 years allowed for completion)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
This is a flexible degree program and tuition will vary based on the course or courses you enrol in at any given time. Please contact the department for more information using this email: business@georgebrown.ca
Centre:
Business
School:
Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 4: Online
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 4, 5, 6: Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Not Available
Winter
2024
Closed
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This program is a tri-college collaboration between Algonquin College, George Brown College and Mohawk College. Each college is sharing their academic and industry expertise to deliver this innovative program.
Program Overview
This pathway is for graduates of the Business – Trades Ontario College Diploma program. Graduates of this program receive credit for 12 courses in the degree and enter the program in semester 4.​
​This degree completion program will prepare you with skills in business administration, management, accounting, project management, leadership, communication and applied research competencies. This program will enable you to grow your own skilled trades business, take on greater responsibilities in your current work environment and/or pursue management careers in medium to large organizations.
Full Description
This pathway is for graduates of the Business – Trades Ontario College Diploma program.
Graduates of this program receive credit for 12 courses in the degree and enter the program in semester 4.​
The Bachelor of Business Administration (Trades Management) (Honours) is a degree-completion program where the knowledge and skills gained through apprenticeship/journeyperson training, or trade-related diploma programs, provide the basis for advanced standing into the program. Focus is on the business administration, managerial, accounting, project management, leadership, communication and applied research competencies needed by people working in or with the skilled trades to grow their own businesses, take on greater responsibilities in their current work environments, and/or pursue management careers in medium to large organizations. For those graduates who want to pursue further academic credentials, the program will facilitate a pathway into graduate studies in both business administration and management programs.
The program's fully online delivery format allows students to continue to work while taking a post-secondary program to develop the business management skills that support career advancement. This format is truly student-centred and facilitates an interdisciplinary approach to integrating business knowledge.
Graduates possess a unique blend of practical knowledge and abilities supported by firm underpinnings of the methodologies and theories relating to the trades-business sectors. Graduates seeking employment in today's rapidly changing global environment are well positioned to start their own business, to manage a small to medium-sized trades-related business, or use their newly developed skills and knowledge to improve an existing business. Employment opportunities may also exist in both the private and public sectors where strong leadership, management and entrepreneurship skills and the ability to adapt to change are highly desired.
The program is delivered by three colleges located across Ontario: Mohawk, Algonquin and George Brown. Each college has expertise in business management and trades programming, as well as the institutional capacity and supports required for fully online program delivery. The colleges are sharing their academic and industry expertise to deliver an innovative program that also aligns with the technological shifts in the sector.
SUCCESS FACTORS
This program is well-suited for students who:
enjoy taking leadership roles
adapt well to change
have an entrepreneurial spirit
are interested in integrating their current skillset with business management
are confident in an online learning environment
Your Field Education Options
An integral component of the Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Trades Management) degree program is mandatory field experience.
Students are required to complete a minimum of 420 hours (equivalent to 14 weeks) of a paid co-op experience either in one block or in multiple cumulative blocks. Through this opportunity, you will gain business experience in a real environment, often in a trades-related organization to enhance your professional development.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program may choose self-employment as a small business owner or find leadership roles in trades-related fields as:
business managers
project managers
quality control managers
maintenance and trades managers
service-related managers
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner 2023-2024
Semester 4 (Bridging)
Course Code
Title
Pre-requisites
ECO 1101
Microeconomics
ECO 2101
Macroeconomics
ECO 1101
QUA 2002
Statistics
BACC 1012
Financial Accounting
BBUS 2105
Principles of Business Management and Research Part 2
Semester 5
Course Code
Title
Pre-requisites
BCMP 2017
Computer Business Applications
MGMT 2013
Risk Management
XBUS 3500
Professional Practice
XMKT 3501
Marketing
Liberal Studies Elective
Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 6
Course Code
Title
Pre-requisites
BLAW 2015
Canadian Business Law
BACC 2013
Managerial Accounting
MGT 4602
Project Management
BFSM 4111
Human Resource Management
Liberal Studies Elective
BCOP3002  Work Integrated Learning (CO-OP)
Semester 7
Course Code
Title
Pre-requisites
BBUS 4011
Operations Management
MGT 2015
Managing Small and Medium Enterprises
MGT 2014
Management Information Systems
BACC 3014
Finance
XMKT 4700
Trades Marketing
XCRE 4701
Capstone Applied Research Project I
Semester 8
Course Code
Title
Pre-requisites
XMGT 4800
Strategic Thinking and Management
BBUS 4107
International Business
MGT 2012
Negotiation Strategies
XCRE 4702
Capstone Applied Research Project II
Liberal Studies Elective
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate will reliably demonstrate the ability to:
Support business objectives by leveraging the interdependencies of functional business units including human resources, marketing, finance and accounting.
Conduct research to support strategic and operational decisions.
Deploy strategic planning techniques to ensure competitive advantage in the trades industry.
Apply relevant project and risk management principles and tools to the management of trade businesses.
Identify opportunities and address challenges in trades businesses using creative and innovative approaches.
Apply principles of management to the operation of trades business ventures.
Plan, implement and manage marketing of trades-related products or services to foster business growth.
Comply with relevant laws, regulations, policies, ethical principles, and industry practices and standards.
Select and use appropriate software and other technologies to meet business goals.
Interpret financial information using management accounting concepts and apply to strategic decision-making.
Identify and apply discipline specific practices that contribute to the local and global community through cultural diversity, social responsibility, economic commitment and environmental stewardship.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
This is a flexible degree program and tuition will vary based on the course or courses you enrol in at any given time. Please contact the department for more information using this email: business@georgebrown.ca
Additional Costs
*This is a flexible degree program and tuition will vary based on the course or courses you enrol in at any given time. Please contact the department for more information using this email:
business@georgebrown.ca
+ Books and additional supplies are
not
included in the tuition fees and must be purchased by the student separately.
Financial Assistance
The OSAP eligibility for this program has yet to be reviewed by the Ministry.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
post-secondary transcript
departmental review
Eligible Professions
Instrumentation and Control Technician
Landscape Horticulturist
Machinist
Steamfitter/Pipe Fitter
Tool and Die Maker
Aerospace/Aviation
Fire Suppression
Military
Sheet Metal Worker
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting starting December 21, 2020. In conformity with the Minister’s criteria and requirements, George Brown will submit an application for the renewal of the consent for this program 12 months prior to the expiration of the consent. George Brown will ensure that all students admitted to this program will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
HONOURS BACHELOR OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (Trades Management)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the coordinator:
Joyce Manu
, Program Co-ordinator
Email:
jmanu@georgebrown.ca
SOCIAL CHANNELS
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn.
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Management
and classes usually take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.