Bachelor of Early Childhood Education – Honours Program (Degree Completion) (C305)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Bachelor of Early Childhood Education – Honours
Code:
C305
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$8,346.00* † ‡ ^
International Tuition:
$19,900.00* † ‡ ^
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Early Childhood
Location:
George Brown College at Toronto Metropolitan University Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Placement
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 5: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 6: Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Early Childhood Education (C100)
Early Childhood Education (Consecutive Diploma/Degree) (C118)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This program is eligible for two separate entrance scholarships — a $1000 entrance scholarship and a second $1200 entrance scholarship.
Visit our entrance scholarship page for details.
Students starting this program in September 2023 will receive an additional $2,000 in each of Semesters 5, 6, 7 and 8.*
*This opportunity is funded in partnership with the City of Toronto, The Region of Durham, The Region of Peel, the Province of Ontario, and the Government of Canada under the new Canada-Ontario Early Childhood Workforce Agreement, which provides one-time federal funding to support the retention and recruitment of a high-quality child care and early years workforce.
George Brown College's
Bachelor of Early Childhood Education – Honours
is a two-year program designed for those with an Early Childhood Education diploma wishing to pursue a degree in early childhood leadership. This program will prepare you to become a progressive leader in this complex and evolving sector. This program offers a part-time study option.
Full Description
This program is eligible for two separate entrance scholarships — a $1000 entrance scholarship and a second $1200 entrance scholarship.
Visit our entrance scholarship page for details.
Students starting this program in September 2023 will receive an additional $2,000 in each of Semesters 5, 6, 7 and 8.*
*This opportunity is funded in partnership with the City of Toronto, The Region of Durham, The Region of Peel, the Province of Ontario, and the Government of Canada under the new Canada-Ontario Early Childhood Workforce Agreement, which provides one-time federal funding to support the retention and recruitment of a high-quality child care and early years workforce.
George Brown College's Bachelor of Early Childhood Education – Honours
program is a two-year program suitable for those with an
Early Childhood Education diploma
wishing to pursue a degree in early childhood leadership. This program will prepare you to become a progressive leader in this complex and evolving sector. Part-time program option available.
In this degree completion program, you will study pedagogy and policy as it relates to the Early Childhood sector and will take an in-depth look at leadership. In the spring/summer semester following the third year, you will participate in a 10-week internship* in the sector and have the opportunity to focus on  an area of research, policy or practice.
*PLEASE NOTE:
This is an unpaid internship and is a required element of the degree program.
We believe that to be a successful leader in the ECE sector, you need to have a deep understanding of both human development and teaching and learning. We’ll guide you through a comprehensive look at each subject as it pertains to early childhood education and practice.
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
As human development plays an ongoing and integral role in our lives, and in particular in a child’s early years, we will expose you to this important topic from a variety of perspectives including:
developmental psychology
population health
neurobiology
sociology
anthropology
TEACHING AND LEARNING
You’ll also study teaching and learning through an early childhood lens. This will encompass a thorough overview of curriculum planning and design as this forms the foundation of early childhood leadership.
Prior to completing your degree, you will have the opportunity to conduct research in an area of your choice and will complete a research project that will ultimately support your final thesis.
PLEASE NOTE:
Some of our clinical or work placement partners may require students to show proof of full vaccination. As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
Please visit this page for the latest updates on COVID-19.
Your Field Education Options
To support student learning outcomes and ensure you have access to facilities that reflect the best practices that we consider essential, we own and operate Ontario's largest network of school owned and operated child care centres that serve over 1,100 children each year. These
12 child care centres,
that are located across the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), expose you to the kinds of environments where you will eventually work and provide valuable services to the families and communities that they serve.
Field placement is offered in each year of this ECE Degree Completion program with the longest being a 14-week full-time internship that takes place between semesters 6 and 7. This internship is unpaid and may be local, elsewhere in Canada or in an international setting.
While on placement, students are expected to demonstrate their learning through exemplifying the leadership skills they have been taught in class.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
The goal of George Brown's Honours Bachelor of Early Childhood Leadership program is to prepare early childhood professionals with program leadership knowledge and skills.
Graduates of this degree completion program will have the knowledge and practice base to influence pedagogy and curriculum. They will be prepared to move into supervisory, director and curriculum leadership positions in a full range of early childhood programs as their careers unfold or as they pursue further study.
This program prepares graduates for positions as
Registered Early Childhood Educators
, working in partnership with certified teachers in the Full-Day Early Learning programs that are replacing junior and senior kindergarten.
(C301) graduates will be prepared to guide and lead curriculum and pedagogy in a variety of Ontario’s early childhood settings such as:
child care centres
family drop-in programs
early intervention services
family support programs
Emerging Best Start Child and Family Centres will be integrated with existing early childhood programs and graduates will be well positioned to assume leadership positions within these centres.
Educational Pathways
Previous ECE degree completion graduates who wished to pursue further education have successfully gained admission to master's degree programs and/or the faculty of education at notable universities.
Toronto Metropolitan University offers several postgraduate study opportunities for graduates of the Honours Bachelor of Early Childhood Leadership degree program including their
Master of Arts in Early Childhood Studies
. View the complete
list of relevant post-graduate study opportunities offered by Toronto Metropolitan University
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course name
ECL 3101
Quality Assurance for Early Childhood Programs
ECL 3102
Leadership in Learning Organizations
ECL 3103
Leadership in a Technological World
ECL 2102
Applied Research Methods
Select two Liberal Studies electives
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course name
ECL 3201
Human Development: Current Topics
ECL 3202
Building Healthy Communities: Advocacy and Leadership
ECL 3205
Internship Seminar
ECL 4102
Curriculum Leadership in Early Learning and Care
ECL 4103
Managing Projects as an Early Childhood Leader
Select one Liberal Studies elective
FIELD PLACEMENT WORK TERM
Third-year internship is a 14-week work experience in an early childhood program, a related child and family service, or a relevant government department. Internship may be local, elsewhere in Canada or in an international setting.
SEMESTER 7
Code
Course name
ECL 3203
Early Childhood Program and System Delivery
ECL 4111
Research in Early Childhood Studies
ECL 4105
Field Seminar 3
ECL 4106
Field Practicum 3
Select two Liberal Studies electives
SEMESTER 8
Code
Course name
ECL 4211
Current Issues – Leadership for Quality (independent studies)
LHUM 1215
Social Policy in Canada
Select one Liberal Studies elective
Course revisions are currently taking place. Course offerings may change without notice.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Analyze the interacting social and biological forces that collectively shape early brain development and set the stage for lifelong learning, behaviour and health.
Respect families’ central role in child-rearing and early learning and the impact of family structures, community support systems, culture and socioeconomic status on parenting.
Lead the design and implementation of inclusive, effective curricula for young children, based upon a critical analysis of historical perspectives, observation, current research and understandings of early human development.
Develop inclusive early intervention programs that respond to children with identified special needs.
Evaluate early childhood programs, engaging stakeholders in the process and addressing diverse needs of young children and families.
Acquire self-knowledge, critical thinking skills and professional habits of mind essential to the practice and leadership of early childhood education.
Apply research skills, including assessment of the research process, formulation of research questions and collection and interpretation of data in a variety of research projects.
Establish responsive and reciprocal relationships with children, families, colleagues and other stakeholders.
Perform responsibilities in a manner consistent with ethical and professional codes of conduct; in compliance with legislative and legal requirements; and, within the defined scope of practice limitations.
Advocate on behalf of children, families, colleagues and the broader community, promoting the principles of quality in early childhood programs.
Apply the principles of human resources, financial and facilities management to the operations of an early childhood program.
Collaborate with early childhood educators and other professionals in multidisciplinary or cross-sectoral environments and across diverse domains of practice.
Communicate in a professional manner in all verbal, non-verbal and written mediums.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$8,346.00* † ‡ ^
International Tuition
$19,900.00* † ‡ ^
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
‡ Students will be required to purchase books and other course materials. Internship cost is in addition to fees.
† Internship cost is in addition to fees
^ All courses in the bridging program for the degree, including the lower level Liberal Arts electives, have an additional cost.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Early Childhood Education (ECE) diploma with a minimum program GPA of 2.5;
OR
Early Childhood Education (ECE) diploma with a minimum three years related work experience in ECE (resumé and reference letters required).
Completion of three (3) George Brown College Continuing Education bridge courses that must be completed by mid-August with a minimum grade of B- (B minus) (*see bridging details further below).
A Liberal Studies course must also be completed prior to completing Year 3 of the program (*).
Online information session – other arrangements will be made for applicants who are unable to attend the online information session.
NOTE: Information sessions are by appointment only and invitations are sent to students who have applied to a program in our School of Early Childhood.
English Language Proficiency:
George Brown College ESL Level 9; TOEFL 84 overall and 21 in each skill band (online); IELTS 6.5 overall and 6.0 in each skill band; MELAB 85; CAEL overall 70 (writing 60).
Please visit
English Proficiency page
for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Field placement is a mandatory and complex component of the program. Should accommodation issues arise, an Accessible Learning Consultant may be called upon to assist the applicant in determining whether she/he can meet the requirements necessary for safe caregiving for young children.
In compliance with requests from our student placement partners and requirements from Public Health and Ontario legislation, all students in this program must have completed the following prior to beginning field placement:
Standard First Aid with CPR level C course
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
medical clearance
Students who are unable to provide completed field clearance documents may be unable to complete their field placement and, therefore, be unable to complete the program.
For more information on the ECE Field Placement requirements, please email
ece@georgebrown.ca.
Our clinical placement partners may require students to show proof of vaccination. It is your responsibility to ensure all pre-clinical requirements are met. For more information, please submit your question on the Covid-19 Students Communication page at www.georgebrown.ca.
Bridging
*From Admission Requirements above
ADVANCED STANDING – ENTRY TO THIRD YEAR
The third-year entry to the ECL program allows working professionals to take part in a degree program, while building intellectual and social connections with a diverse and stimulating cohort of student colleagues and with faculty through face-to-face and online supports. This program offers those with an ECE diploma an opportunity to pursue a degree in the field.
The program only starts in September, and three Continuing Education "Bridge" courses must be successfully completed with a minimum grade point average of 2.5.
To be considered for the Early Childhood Leadership (Fast-Track) program, applicants must successfully complete three bridge courses (below) with a minimum grade required by mid-August
ECE 2058
Competent Learner
ECL 1002
Introduction to Early Childhood Leadership
ECL 1308
Human Development
ECL 1205
Composition & Rhetoric (This mandated bridge elective must be successfully completed prior to completing Year 3 of the program)
Applicants accepted into the program will be assigned a faculty advisor. Each participant is assigned a faculty supervisor who will also supervise the independent study in Year 4.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting August 29, 2017. In conformity with the Minister’s criteria and requirements, George Brown will submit an application for the renewal of the consent for this program 12 months prior to the expiration of the consent. George Brown will ensure that all students admitted to this program will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Early Childhood
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2310
Email:
ece@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Early Childhood Education (C100)
Early Childhood Education (Consecutive Diploma/Degree) (C118)
“Through the Toys or Tools project, our team of current and former students have gained our first crucial experiences in academic projects. We developed critical thinking skills and sharpened our ability to communicate effectively through written and verbal means.”
Click here to learn more about the Toys or Tools applied research project
.
Emma Mogyorodi
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.