Baking and Pastry Foundations Program (H128)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Baking and Pastry Foundations
Code:
H128
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January
Domestic Tuition:
$5,559.00 * †
International Tuition:
$18,968.00 ** †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Not Available
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Baking and Pastry Arts Management (H113)
Baker / Patissier Apprentice Program (H600)
Advanced French Patisserie (Postgraduate) (H413)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Located in the heart of downtown Toronto, George Brown puts you at the centre of Canada's Baking and Pastry industry. This one-year Baking and Pastry Foundations certificate program will help you learn the basics of pastry, cakes and decorating through hands-on training and classroom learning.
Full Description
If you want to work as a baker or pastry chef, this is where you start. This one-year certificate program will help you launch a career in baking and pastry arts. You’ll learn all the basics of pastry, cakes and decorating through hands-on training and classroom learning. You’ll also gain specialized knowledge in areas such as artisanal bread, chocolate techniques and fermentation, as well as menu management and nutrition.
Program Schedule
The schedule for the Baking and Pastry Foundations
program currently operates from Monday to Friday. Note: some classes may begin as early as 7am, and others may end as late as 11p.m.
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
This program gives you the fundamental skills needed for an exciting and rewarding career in areas such as:
large bakery production
hotel pastry departments
catering companies
any of the countless bakeries, specialty cake and pastry shops located all over the world
You can even combine the skills you’ve learned with your entrepreneurial spirit and start your own business.
Educational Pathways
As a graduate from any culinary or baking and pastry management program in Ontario (or one-year certificate program with one year of industry experience), you are eligible to apply for our
Advanced French Patisserie postgraduate program (H413)
.
Graduates may qualify for direct entry to the second year of the
Baking and Pastry Arts Management diploma program
. Summer semester graduates may be admitted in the Fall semester, based on space availability. Please contact the program co-ordinator for further information.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOSF1145
Sanitation
HOSF1094
Baking and Pastry Arts Theory I
HOSF1093
Baking and Pastry Arts Skills I
HOSF1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
COMM2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH1200
Culinary Math Essentials
GSCI1035
Science of Sustainability
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HOSF1287
WHMIS
HOST1068
Smart Serve
HOSF1097
Baking and Pastry Arts Theory II
HOSF1096
Baking and Pastry Arts Skills II
HOSF1224
Dessert Menu Management*
HOSF2060
Baking and Pastry Production I*
HOSF1255
Nutrition Fundamentals from a Culinary Perspective
HOST1126
Career Preparation*
HOSF1206
Cost Control* (hybrid)
* seven-week course
** Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit our
assessment centre
for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Identify the workings and the effects of ingredients on one another and predict how the end product will be affected.
Perform problem-solving and troubleshoot recipes.
Perform basic techniques involved in the daily production of a bakery or pastry shop.
Recognize and produce both classical and modern baked goods.
Apply food safety principles and practices as identified by the local health unit.
Apply basic mathematical principles and recipe conversions, bakery formulations and percentages.
Practise skills used in the daily operation of a bakery, including cost controls, food cost, percentages, labour cost and inventory controls.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,559.00 * †
International Tuition
$18,968.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Winter
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice.
† Additional Cost
Description
Cost
Small wares
$100-$300
Manuals and books
$400
Note:
Semester 1 tuition fees include the cost of a baking kit, safety shoes, and Chef School uniform.
Please view the following for a detailed list of what is contained in the baking kit:
George Brown Baking Kit Detailed List
George Brown Baking Kit Visual
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
Grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens including nuts, dairy and shellfish are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
Baking and Pastry Foundations
(H128)
For general Chef School inquiries, please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Baking and Pastry Arts Management (H113)
Baker / Patissier Apprentice Program (H600)
Advanced French Patisserie (Postgraduate) (H413)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.