Behavioural Science Technician Program (Accelerated) (C156)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Behavioural Science Technician
Code:
C156
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,323.00 *
International Tuition:
$24,628.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Health & Wellness
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field education in semesters 3 and 4.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 2: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 3: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Behavioural Science Technician (C146)
Autism and Behavioural Science (Postgraduate) (C405)
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (S302)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This intensive one-year diploma program is unique in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA).
Program Overview
George Brown College's Behavioural Science Technician (Accelerated) (C156)
one-year intensive program is designed for students who have a bachelor's degree in psychology or a related field. In this accelerated diploma program, you will study applied behaviour analysis (ABA) and behavioural intervention as it relates to a variety of populations including those with developmental disabilities, acquired brain injury, gerontology and behavioural disorders.
Full Description
George Brown College's Behavioural Science Technician (Accelerated)
one-year intensive diploma program is designed for students who have a bachelor's degree with a major in psychology or a related discipline. You must have completed an Introduction to Psychology and one other psychology-related course to apply.
As a student in this program, you will study
applied behaviour analysis
(ABA) and
behavioural intervention
.
The themes in the program include:
behavioural theory and application
program development
scientific method
ethics and professionalism
diversity
general education with an emphasis on practical application in the field
Practicum and course work is often related to developmental disabilities, acquired brain injury, gerontology and behavioural disorders.
Note:
Travel may be required for field education due to the number of opportunities for appropriate placements within the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). Students may be placed in locations as far east as Oshawa, as far west as Burlington and as far north as Vaughan.
ABAI VERIFIED COURSE SEQUENCE
The Association for Behavior Analysis International has verified the following courses toward the coursework requirements for eligibility to take the Board Certified Assistant Behavior Analyst® examination. Applicants will need to meet additional requirements before they can be deemed eligible to take the examination.
View ABAI approved course sequence.
Your Field Education Options
This accelerated Behavioural Science Technician program offers two intensive field placements in semester 3 (January placement) and semester 4 (May/June placement).
Each placement is seven weeks long. You can expect to be with the field partner four days per week off-site (approximately 7.5 hours per day) and in class on-site at George Brown on the fifth day. The in-class day will allow you the opportunity to reflect on your placement experience and help you connect classroom theory with the work you are doing off-site.
Placements will be conducted with a variety of populations and agencies whose clients could have autism, mental health issues, acquired brain injury, developmental disabilities, behavioural concerns or issues related to aging. Partner agencies are located across the GTA and students may be required to travel.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Employment is often related to autism, developmental disabilities, intellectual disabilities, brain injury, gerontology and behavioural disorders.
Graduates are employed in a variety of settings with diverse clinical populations of all ages who frequently present challenging behaviours. They may work to develop and implement behavioural interventions designed to manage challenging behaviours and/or teach skills.
Behavioural Science Technician graduates may find employment in:
ABA therapy programs
schools
hospitals
residential and treatment facilities
vocational agencies
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
BST 1003
Behavioural Theory
BST 1037
Behaviour Theory and Practice: Introduction to ABA
BST 1030
Behaviour Theory and Practice: Behavioural Assessment
BST 1032
Ethics and Professionalism
BST 2002
Research Design
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
BST 2036
Behaviour Theory and Practice: Acquisition Strategies
BST 2037
Behaviour Theory and Practice: Reduction Strategies
BST 2041
Behaviour Theory and Practice: Group-Based Interventions
BST 2044
ABA Application to Special Populations
BST 2027
Field Seminar II
BST 2038
Field Placement II
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
BST 2042
Field Seminar III
BST 2043
Field Placement III
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Implement effective behaviour analytic intervention strategies based on the science of Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA) in order to increase desired behaviours, teach new skills and decrease contextually problematic behaviours.
Integrate background information and knowledge of special populations into therapeutic practice, in order to develop behavioural interventions using a behaviour analytic approach.
Communicate with various stakeholders the behaviour analytic principles, processes and concepts central to the interventions being provided in order to enhance quality of service.
Compile measurements of behaviour in accordance with the ONTABA standards of practice and the Behavior Analyst Certification Board's Guidelines for Responsible conduct in order to conduct behavioural assessments and develop behavioural interventions.
Apply systems thinking to behavioural processes related to socially significant behaviour change in order to ensure the sustainability of behaviour change programs that increase an individual’s quality of life.
Adhere to federal, provincial and professional policies and regulations associated with the ethical practice of Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA) among various populations or service sectors.
Apply input gained from collaboration with stakeholders (including individuals, family members and community members) and professionals in the field of service into effective client service intervention.
Develop a reflective practice, using professional development and self-care strategies to enhance professional competence.
Develop client-centred behavioural intervention plans that account for individuals’ rights, needs, goals and their social and community context.
Integrate the conceptual and philosophical underpinnings of behaviour analysis into a comprehensive case formulation of human behaviour to assist in the assessment, design and implementation of behaviour change programs.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,323.00 *
International Tuition
$24,628.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the three semesters of the program starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Completion of a three-year or four-year Bachelor of Arts.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Find out more about
English proficiency
requirements.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Additional Mandatory Requirements
Pre-placement Health Form
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet all the mandatory pre-placement health requirements for the program. It may take up to four months to complete all the requirements.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
For further details and to download the mandatory pre-placement health form, go to the
Pre-placement website.
Police Vulnerable Sector Check (must be valid annually)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a Police Vulnerable Sector Check completed, and this check must be renewed annually before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Police Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered "vulnerable persons" under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for "individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s)."
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Police Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a "clear" Police Vulnerable Sector Check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a "not clear" status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the police record check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Pre-placement website.
Public Health recommends that people working with young children and other vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Call the George Brown School of Health and Wellness at 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. or E-mail
hwprograms@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Behavioural Science Technician (C146)
Autism and Behavioural Science (Postgraduate) (C405)
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (S302)
"My completion of the Behavioural Science Technology (Intensive) program at George Brown College was an integral step towards beginning an exciting career in applied behaviour analysis. In a short amount of time I had both a thorough knowledge base from detailed coursework and invaluable experience from two extremely hands-on, immersive field placements, allowing me entry into a job position straight from graduation. Above all, the preparedness that this program provides to students for entry into an exciting and challenging career is second to none."
Marina Jiujias
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.