Building Renovation Technology Program (T148)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Building Renovation Technology
Code:
T148
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,979.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,673.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Apprenticeship & Skilled Trades
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Mandatory Field Placement
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 3: On Campus; Semester 5: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 4: On Campus; Semester 6: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Construction Engineering Technology (T105)
Construction Techniques (T176)
Carpentry and Renovation Technician (T180)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
There is a growing demand for qualified, knowledgeable and professional renovators and custom home builders in the construction industry. This three-year program is designed to prepare you for employment in the carpentry trade and management areas of the renovation and construction field, with sustainable design business principles being key.
Full Description
This program is designed to teach you new construction and building renovation skills from both an applied perspective and a management perspective, including carpentry techniques and new materials applications, while providing a solid understanding of the renovation-related trades.
Hands-on training takes place in fully equipped labs where students practice current techniques related to renovations and new-home construction, using sustainable design principles. The third year of the program focuses on project management skills required to work in a supervisory role. You will also have an introductory exposure to the business skills that can be adapted to starting and running a renovation, custom home building or general contracting business.
Practical applications include:
residential construction and renovations
millwork
demolition
framing
finishes
drywall installation and finishing
site management
cabinetry
stair construction
building code
basic electrical, HVAC and plumbing systems.
Business skills include:
business management
marketing
client relations
project management
site management
scheduling
controlling, estimating and bookkeeping
budgeting and financial management
inspections
You will also learn how to use and apply computer software and technology currently used in the construction industry, including spreadsheets, computer-aided design, estimating, project management and presentation tools.
Note: When you enrol in the program in January, you are required to complete semester 2 in the summer (May to August) of the same year to continue into semester 3 in the fall.
This program is unique in Ontario.
Your Field Education Options
This program requires the successful completion of two semesters of field placement. George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the learning outcomes of the program. This valuable work experience can in turn be added to your resumé.
In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide additional learning opportunities with real-world challenges and clients. Find out more about
field education
at our Industry Liaison Office.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Educational Pathways
Qualified graduates may be eligible for direct entry into the third year of the George Brown College Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) degree program. Bridge courses will be required.
For more information, see
Diploma to Degree page
.
Courses
Required Courses
Please note that students who start T180 or T148 in the Winter term will take 1st and 2nd semester courses in alternatively delivered formats.
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
BLDG 1075
Residential Construction Lab 1
BLDG 1079
Plan Interpretation 1
GHUM 1106
History of Architecture
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH 1136
Mathematics for Building Technologies 1
BLDG 1081
Construction Safety & Rigging
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
BLDG 1082
Construction Layout
BLDG 1083
Estimating 1
BLDG 1089
Plan Interpretation 2
GSCI 1022
Building Science & Environment
PORT 1001
Portfolio
BLDG 1095
Residential Construction Lab 2
MATH 1146
Mathematics for Building Technologies 2
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
BLDG 2069
Residential Construction Lab 3
BLDG 2074
Planning and Scheduling
BLDG 2075
Estimating 2
BLDG 1020
Interior Millwork and Finishes
BLDG 2033
Field Placement 1
BLDG 2052
Methods of Measurement: Renovation and Redevelopment
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
COMM 1113
Professional Communications for Building Technologies
BLDG 2072
Residential Construction Lab 4
BLDG 2008
Associated Trades – Applied Theory and Applications
BLDG 2027
Field Placement 2
BLDG 2077
Site Management
BLDG 3176
Applied Building Science & Best Principles
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
BLDG 3071
Passive Building 1
BLDG 3063
Building Regulations 1 – Zoning
BLDG 3067
Residential Design
BLDG 3074
Business Management
BLDG 3172
Financial Management and Project Accounting
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
BLDG 3072
Passive Building 2
BLDG 3073
Building Regulations 2 – Building Code
BLDG 3080
Field Placement 3
BLDG 3094
Business Management 2
BLDG 3154
Construction Economics and Real Estate Property Development
BLDG 3161
Building Renovation Project Management Capstone
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Develop and use strategies for ongoing professional development to remain current with industry changes, enhance work performance and explore career opportunities.
Comply with and monitor health and safety practices and procedures in accordance with current legislation and regulations.
Prepare quotes and monitor that work is completed in compliance with the rights and conditions of contractual obligations, the Ontario and/or National Building Codes, applicable laws, bylaws, standards and ethical practices in the building construction and renovation field.
Promote and maintain sustainability practices in the implementation of building construction and renovation projects.
Facilitate collaboration and interaction among a range of tradespersons and project stakeholders to support timely completion of building construction and renovation projects.
Review and interpret project plans and produce technical sketches and documents to support building construction and renovation projects.
Use technologies to obtain, analyze, organize and communicate building construction and renovation information.
Analyze and solve technical problems related to the design and implementation of building construction and renovation projects by applying the principles of advanced technical mathematics, building design and building science.
Select, maintain and safely use hand tools, and portable and stationary power tools, when performing layout, cutting, fitting and assembly operations.
Complete building and renovation stages, from site layout and footings to the application of interior and exterior finishes, in accordance with blueprint specifications and conservation principles.
Evaluate the methods employed and the use of equipment and materials involved in the completion of building construction and renovation projects.
Schedule, coordinate and monitor the progression of building construction and renovation projects by applying principles and strategies of project management.
Design and implement business strategies to develop home building, renovation and redevelopment enterprises.
Apply leadership, supervision and interpersonal skills to manage building construction and renovation projects.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,979.00 *
International Tuition
$17,673.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Apprenticeship and Skilled Trades
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 6711
Email:
skilledtrades@georgebrown.ca
Office: Casa Loma Campus, Room E308
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Construction Engineering Technology (T105)
Construction Techniques (T176)
Carpentry and Renovation Technician (T180)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.