Career Development Practitioner Program (Postgraduate) (C406)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Career Development Practitioner
Code:
C406
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,121.00 *
International Tuition:
$26,232.00 **
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Social & Community Services
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Practicum in semester 3
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Human Resources Management (Postgraduate) (B408)
Social Service Worker (C119)
Community Worker (C101)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Career Development Practitioner is the only Career Development graduate certificate program in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA).
Graduation from the program provides the full academic component and partial fulfillment of work experience hours for certification by the Career Development Practitioners' Certification Board of Ontario (CDPCBO).
Program Overview
George Brown College's Career Development Practitioner (C406)
program will prepare students to provide advice and guidance related to career exploration, skill acquisition, job search and maintenance. This one-year post-diploma certificate program provides training to enter and/or advance in the field of career development.
Full Description
George Brown College's Career Development Practitioner (C406) is a three-semester (one-year) graduate certificate program that prepares graduates to enter the career development sector. The program may also appeal to practitioners working in the field who want to gain additional formal training and job-coaching experience. The career development sector includes nonprofit/community-based, government, post-secondary and private/corporate organizations.
The key objective of the field is to assist clients to be self-sufficient in career exploration, skill acquisition, job search and maintenance. Career Development Practitioners coach and counsel others on:
job search
career planning
career choice and change
academic and training advising
identifying and meeting staffing needs
Career Development Practitioners may work with specialized and diverse groups such as:
youth
women
people with disabilities
immigrants and refugees
This program has been designed to meet the changing needs of the sector and will help meet demand for trained Career Development Practitioners in the GTA and beyond.
The curriculum is designed to meet the
Canadian Standards and Guidelines for Career Development Practitioners
.
Graduation from the program provides the full academic component and partial fulfillment of work experience hours for certification by the
Career Development Practitioners' Certification Board of Ontario (CDPCBO)
.
What can you expect from the Career Development Practitioner program?
The program will combine in-class experiential training in counselling and coaching, theory and practice. Courses may also be conducted online or in a blended format.
The use of technology will enable students to participate in exciting ways that will build on previous knowledge and skills.
The final semester is dedicated to a supervised field education opportunity that ensures graduates leave with practical experience that will be recognized by employers.
To provide students with a rich learning experience, we offer a variety of teaching methods such as:
seminars
lectures
online learning
small group work
guest speakers
field visits
What Career Development Practitioner key skills and knowledge will you gain?
emerging trends and techniques in job search and career exploration
individual and group facilitation/counselling
job development and employer engagement
ethics and professional practice
career development theory
diversity, accessibility, equity and inclusion
use of technology and social media
career and employment information resources
employment legislation and programs
Who are our Career Development Practitioner students?
Our students have completed a college diploma or a university degree.
Due to the varied nature of the work and workplaces of Career Development Practitioners, it is expected that graduates may come from a wide variety of programs of study including:
psychology
sociology
education
social and community services
business
marketing
human resources
People who are interested in others, are excited about the opportunity to assist others in professional and life decisions and to help them to be self-sufficient in job search and job retention will be attracted to this field of study.
Practitioners contribute to the emotional and financial well-being of their clients and their families, their communities and the economy.
Your Field Education Options
Students are required to complete approximately 300 hours of field education in semester three and will be supported in developing relationships with our community partners to obtain a placement opportunity in the GTA setting and further afield.
Placements will be chosen by students based on their learning goals, environments sought, clientele, location and other factors and will be approved by the program coordinator.
George Brown College has extensive connections with employers in all parts of the sector including community-based organizations, college and university career centres, internal corporate career services and career-management firms.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Career Development Practitioner (C406) graduates may hold a variety of job titles within the field of Career Development including:
employment consultant/counsellor
career consultant/counsellor/coach
employment information specialist
job developer/employment placement specialist/employment marketing consultant
workshop facilitator
academic advisor
career education specialist
career coach/career management professional
outreach specialist/worker
recruitment advisor
employee assistance counsellor
These positions may be held in the community-based, post-secondary and private sector as well as labour organizations, vocational rehabilitation programs and government departments.
Graduates of the program will have completed the two mandatory courses (Ethics and Career Development Theory) for certification by CDPCBO as a Certified Career Development Practitioner (CCDP). In addition, their field education/practicum hours will be counted toward the work experience requirement. Graduates will need to gain additional work experience before being able to apply for certification.
George Brown College is well-connected to the Career Development sector. Hundreds of practitioners that graduated from the former Career and Work Counsellor (CWC) diploma program are now working in the GTA and beyond in both leadership/managerial and front-line positions, providing opportunities for networking and career development.
The alumni committee of the CWC program is actively involved in providing professional development and mentoring opportunities.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
CDPR 4000
Trends in Career Development
CDPR 4001
Needs Assessment
CDPR 4004
Theories of Career Development
CDPR 4005
Work Search
CDPR 4006
Human Rights, Diversity and Equity
CDPR 4018
Professional Practice and Ethics
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
CDPR 4007
Group Facilitation
CDPR 4009
Career and Employment Resources
CDPR 4010
Accessibility in the Workplace
CDPR 4011
Individual Counselling and Coaching
CDPR 4013
Informal Assessment Tools
CDPR 4016
Employer Engagement
CDRP 4017
Digital Literacy in Career Development
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
CDPR 4014
Work-Integrated Learning Seminar
CDPR 4015
Practicum
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Apply evidence-­based career development practices in advising diverse client groups.
Utilize self­-reflective and critical thinking skills to enhance counselling, teaching and learning strategies with groups and individuals.
Develop a commitment to ongoing professional development to actively respond to changing labour market and professional requirements.
Integrate appropriate career information resources and tools with career and employment strategies to enable clients to meet their employment goals.
Perform needs assessments and develop subsequent interventions using techniques and skills that enable diverse ranges of clients to meet employment goals.
Design consulting, advising and teaching strategies that incorporate trends and issues of the changing labour market to assist clients in job search and career transitions.
Integrate emergent technologies into the full spectrum of Career Development processes and applications to maximize service delivery to clients navigating changing labour market requirements.
Adhere to relevant legislation and social policy to plan programs, interventions and referrals for client groups.
Use current work search tools and strategies to facilitate successful client job search.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,121.00 *
International Tuition
$26,232.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the three semesters of the program starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
a two- or three-year diploma or a bachelor's degree from a college or university
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts must provide English language proficiency test results or complete the George Brown College English assessment to provide evidence of their English language proficiency. For more information please visit our
English Proficiency Chart
.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Our field placement partners may require students to show proof of vaccination. It is your responsibility to ensure all pre-placement requirements are met.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Social & Community Services
Email:
communityservices@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Career Development Practitioner Program Co-ordinator:
Thanh Dinh
thanhthi.dinh@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College
Contact George Brown College | George Brown College
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Human Resources Management (Postgraduate) (B408)
Social Service Worker (C119)
Community Worker (C101)
"I have started working as an Employment Consultant with ACCES Employment in Toronto. Specifically, I am working with the Entrepreneurship Connections Pre-arrival program. I will always remember and be grateful for my wonderful experience with George Brown College, not only as a student in the Career Development Practitioner program, but also as a peer tutor/peer leader with the Tutoring and Learning Centre. I am very thankful for having been part of the educational program and student services at GBC. Thank you for the team at GBC who were part of this career journey!"
Natalie Treboute
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.