College Vocational Program (A101)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
College Vocational
Code:
A101
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,617.00 *
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Work & College Preparation
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Social Service Worker (C119)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
The College Vocational (A101) program is unique in Ontario.
Program Overview
The
College Vocational program (A101)
is a two-semester program designed to address employment barriers and meet the employment preparation needs of students who are neurodiverse or who live with a mild intellectual disability. Designed for maximum engagement and inclusion, the program helps students develop effective teamwork and communication skills, as well as self-awareness, self-advocacy and confidence to set achievable goals. In collaboration with community partner
PTP Adult Learning & Employment Programs
, students in this program participate in a range of employment-related workshops and have a work placement opportunity.
This program is suitable for those who have graduated from high school with an Ontario Secondary School Certificate (OSSC) or Diploma (OSSD) and workplace credits. This program is unique in Ontario.
Full Description
College Vocational (A101)
at George Brown College
is program designed for those who are neurodiverse or who have a mild intellectual disability and are interested in finding employment. Program activities help students to develop a variety of job-readiness skills and support individual career exploration to help find appropriate and meaningful employment.
(A101) students participate in a range of employment related workshops delivered by our community partner,
PTP Adult Learning & Employment Programs
. PTP also provides our workplace experience which can lead to paid employment upon graduation.
College Vocational Program Details:
job-readiness program provides support with resumé and cover letter writing, interview skills, networking and more
two-semester program starts in September
in-person delivery
PTP Adult Learning & Employment counsellors and job developers will support students in their work placement and job search both during and upon graduation from the program
designed for high school graduates with an Ontario Secondary School Certificate (OSSC) or Diploma (OSSD) who have workplace or college credits
Course content includes:
self-exploration and career planning
communication and math skills training
digital skills training
intrapersonal and interpersonal skills enhancement
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Upon completion of the College Vocational (A101) program at George Brown, graduates can:
take specialized job training programs
enroll in additional college programs
continue to work with PTP employment counsellors and job developers to find meaningful paid employment
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
LIFE 1015
Personal and Professional Dynamics I
COMM 1158
Communications and Mathematics Skills and Strategies I
PREP 1016
Transitions to Work
PREP 1020
Digital Skills for Life and Work I
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
LIFE 1016
Personal and Professional Dynamics II
COMM 1159
Communications and Mathematics Skills and Strategies II
PREP 1029
Pathways to Work
PREP 1030
Digital Skills for Life and Work II
PREP 1035
Work-Integrated Learning Practicum
Detailed course outlines
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate will have reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Apply key information processing skills to employment and academic contexts.
Apply workplace conventions and practices (policies and procedures, rules, regulations, health and safety laws/guidelines, ethical principles, etc.).
Produce a career pathway plan with associated artifacts.
Use essential literacies, such as communication, numeracy, digital, media, to carry out tasks and responsibilities.
Manage personal and professional growth in employment and academic contexts.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,617.00 *
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Eligible candidates are required to have one of the following:
OSSD or
Ontario Secondary School Certificate or
mature student status (19 years of age or older)
How to Apply and Qualify
Submit an application through the Ontario College Application Service (OCAS) at
ontariocolleges.ca.
Qualified applicants are required to attend a mandatory online intake assessment and interview.
Please note:
For information session dates, contact the program co-ordinator in mid-January at:
cv@georgebrown.ca
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Call the College Vocational program co-ordinator at 416-415-5000, ext. 2503, or email at
jdewar@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Visit Our Campus
Book a general
campus tour
to see the common areas of the campus (i.e., cafeteria, student services, the gym, etc.) or explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Social Service Worker (C119)
Read this story to learn about the
success that Joey Gamulin had in this program
and how it led to him becoming the 2022 Centre for Preparatory and Liberal Studies Dean’s Medal award-winner.
Joey Gamulin
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.