Community Worker Program (Accelerated) (C131)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Community Worker
Code:
C131
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
5 weeks, 8 months (3 semesters) full-time
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$3,656.00 * ‡
International Tuition:
$17,313.00 ** ‡
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Social & Community Services
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Education
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 3: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 4: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
Community Worker (C101)
Social Service Worker (C119)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
George Brown College has been preparing Community Workers for more than 40 years.
Program Overview
George Brown College's Community Worker (Accelerated) (C131)
is a dynamic, fast-track program designed to prepare you to work with individuals, organizations and communities. You'll lean to work across a range of issues including social justice, poverty, housing, violence, food justice, immigration and settlement in ways that are responsive to their multiple and changing needs. This accelerated program stream is suitable for students with an existing diploma or degree.
PLEASE NOTE: if you apply to the 2023/24 intake for this program, you will start in May 2024. To begin your studies in May 2023, apply to the 2022/23 academic year.
This is an approved education program by the
Ontario College of Social Workers and Social Service Workers (OCSWSSW)
. Graduates of this program may apply to receive the additional designation of RSSW (Registered Social Service Worker). Extra fees may apply.
Full Description
George Brown College's Community Worker (Accelerated) is a dynamic, fast-track program grounded in the principles of and respect for social justice, human rights and anti-oppressive practice.
This fast-track program stream is suitable for students with an existing diploma or degree.
PLEASE NOTE: if you apply to the 2023/24 intake for this program, you will start in May 2024. To begin your studies in May 2023, apply to the 2022/23 academic year.
Over the course of three semesters, you will learn how to work with urban-centred, diverse communities across a range of issues such as:
poverty, housing, food justice, immigration and settlement.
You will develop the skills you need to be responsive to their needs as they change and evolve.
If you are passionate about human rights and social justice, committed to working with diverse communities, bring a mature and professional approach to your education and field work and are prepared to take on a full-time course load, this program is for you.
About the Community Worker (Accelerated) Program
This program combines classroom instruction with supervised field placements. Theory, analysis and practice are presented through a variety of innovative instructional tools developed from popular education and learner-centred approaches to teaching and learning. Practical experience gives you the opportunity to apply what you've learned in the classroom in a community setting.
Highly participatory classes of dialogue, debate, activities, interactive lectures, guest speakers and panels, and group work provide students with program content that that is current, exciting, and critically engaging.
Key Skills Taught in the Community Worker (Accelerated) Program
Throughout the program, students will have the opportunity to develop a variety of important and high-demand skills, including:
anti-oppressive practice in working with diverse populations (including immigrant and refugee communities, marginalized populations, and Indigenous peoples)
critical analysis, research and writing
group facilitation and leadership
individual and group counselling
conflict mediation and restorative justice
community organizing, activism and advocacy
community development, project design and proposal writing
policy analysis and rights-based advocacy
This Community Worker Program Features:
Strong ties with over 350 agencies across the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) and beyond.
Founder and lead organizer of the annual Tommy Douglas Institute, which brings communities, students, educators and activists together to explore higher education and social justice in the twenty-first century.
The full-time Community Worker (C101) program has been graduating community workers for more than 40 years.
Community Worker Core Areas of Study:
community work theory and practice
social and political analysis
group skills and counselling
field placement and seminar
You will develop relationships with our community partners through field placements, and sector professionals in your classrooms. Community partners play a key role in networking events, guest panels, and teaching many of the program specializations.
Community Worker (Accelerated) Faculty
The experienced educators that make up our faculty bring their passion for education and change to create a highly engaging and dynamic learning environment. Coming from backgrounds in local, national and global activism, they remain connected to social issues and maintain close ties to communities, practitioners, and organizations.
Community Worker (Accelerated) Students
Graduates from other degrees and diploma programs interested in learning more about social justice and community development enroll in this program. The students are a diverse group with broad social and community experiences.
Your Field Education Options
Community Worker students have the opportunity to develop practical skills and gain valuable work experience by completing approximately 400 hours of field placement in the final two semesters of the program.
Through our strong ties to more than 150 field agencies across the GTA and beyond, students can find placements suited to their interests in a variety of settings, from immigration and settlement services to community food centres, multi-service and government agencies.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Attain Additional Designation of Registered Social Service Worker (RSSW)
This is an approved education program by the
Ontario College of Social Workers and Social Service Workers (OCSWSSW)
. Graduates of this program can apply and may receive the additional designation of RSSW (Registered Social Service Worker). Extra fees will apply.
This program is proud to continue a long tradition of graduating Community Workers into a range of professions such as:
community agencies and neighbourhood hubs
government agencies
international development agencies
shelters and community food centres
immigration and settlement services
health-care centres and harm reduction agencies
rights and advocacy groups (e.g., anti-poverty, settlement services, housing, violence, education, HIV/AIDS community)
education and arts organizations
Educational Pathways
Community Worker graduates who successfully complete this program with a high academic standing may qualify for pathways to the following programs:
Community Development
B.A. and
Community Economic & Social Development
B.A. at Algoma University
Community Development
B.A. at Humber College
Policing & Community Well-Being (B.A)
at Trent University
Professional Communications
B.A. and
Justice Studies
B.A. at Royal Roads. University
Social Work B.A. programs at
Toronto Metropolitan University
and
York University
For further information, see
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 2: May–June
Code
Course Name
CWRK 1310
Community Work Theory
CWRK 1314
Interpersonal Communication Skills from An Anti-Oppressive Perspective
CWRK 1312
Socio-Political Analysis and Human Rights
CWRK 1313
Community Work in Practice
SEMESTER 3: September–December
Code
Course Name
COUN 2003
Counselling
CWRK 2019
Canadian Social Policy
CWRK 2038
Fieldwork II
CWRK 2039
Fieldwork Seminar II
CWRK 2043
Community Development: Programs and Funding
SEMESTER 3: Program Specialization Course
Code
Course Name
CWRK 2026
Housing & Homelessness
CWRK 2035
Immigration and Settlement: Working with Immigrant and Refugee Populations
SEMESTER 4: January–April
Code
Course Name
CWRK 2032
Global Politics
CWRK 2038
Fieldwork II
CWRK 2039
Fieldwork Seminar II
CWRK 2016
Group Facilitation
CWRK 2044
Critical Digital Community Work
Semester 4 - Program Specialization Courses
Code
Course Name
CWRK 2033
Food Justice
CWRK 2040
Environmental Justice
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Establish constructive relationships with individuals concerned with community work.
Describe their personal values and motivation as a community worker.
Serve in a variety of grassroots community organizations especially in the areas of co-operatives, seniors and community legal services.
Be comfortable in community work roles ranging from direct service to classical advocacy and organizing.
Understand and articulate the special needs of multicultural groups.
Analyze social inequalities and demonstrate creativity in the organization of new services and institutions to meet community needs.
Work with groups to identify their own needs.
Access existing services and community resources.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,656.00 * ‡
International Tuition
$17,313.00 ** ‡
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Spring
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice.
‡ May semester fees are approximately; $870.00 Domestic, $3,520.00 International. These fees are not included in the tuition above and are subject to change. They are to be paid separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
This program is approved for OSAP funding (for semesters 3 and 4), provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Note: Semester 2 (May–June) is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
diploma or bachelor's degree
** Please note that successful completion of the five-week program in May is required prior to entrance to the fall semester.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English Language proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency page
for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Note: In compliance with the requirements of our field partners, all students in this program are encouraged to complete a Police Vulnerable Sector Check before commencing their field placement. These reference checks, which can take up to four months, are done to protect the clientele of these agencies who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law. The fees for the reference checks vary by region and must be paid by the student. Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).” The program will assist students in applying for the police check once they begin the program.
Students without a clear police reference check may find that their choice of placement is limited. Students in this situation are encouraged to work with the field education coordinator to identify placement opportunities that do not require the vulnerable sector check. Students are also encouraged to inquire and apply for Suppression and Destruction of Record or Record Suspension (formerly known Pardon) at their specific regional police services, in order to prepare for their future career or employment.
Please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website
for more information.
Our field placement partners may require students to show proof of vaccination. It is your responsibility to ensure all pre-placement requirements are met.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Social & Community Services
Email:
communityservices@georgebrown.ca
.
Our office hours are Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Community Worker Program (Fast-Track) Co-ordinator:
Farhia Abdi,
Email:
fabdi7@georgebrown.ca
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 3926
For more information about George Brown College:
Contact George Brown College
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
Community Worker (C101)
Social Service Worker (C119)
“As someone with previous post-secondary education, enrolling in the Community Worker Fast track program was the best choice I could have made. The programs’ professors are experienced academics and passionate advocates for community work and the diverse professional and educational backgrounds of my classmates created a unique and enhanced educational experience. The title “Community Worker” gives you the freedom and option of tailoring your professional goals at your co-op placement into work that you're passionate about. George Brown has been the best post-secondary experience.”
Taneisha Lawrence
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.