Commercial Dance Program (P106)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Commercial Dance
Code:
P106
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$8,254.00* ‡
International Tuition:
$28,109.00 ** ‡
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Media & Performing Arts
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Dance Performance (P105)
Dance Performance Preparation (P101)
Acting for Media (P107)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Commercial Dance (P106) is a 12-month certificate program graduating professional triple-threat dancers ready for a career in commercial dance.
Full Description
This intensive 12-month
Commercial Dance
program provides you with the performance skills and marketability necessary to work in the vast field of commercial dance. A graduate has the ability to dance, sing and act, enabling a performance career in music videos, musical theatre, cruise ship performance and more.
Dance training is in jazz, hip hop and ballet combined with in-depth acting, vocals and chorus repertoire. Career management and personal marketing skills combined with polished performance technique will launch your professional commercial dance career.
STUDENT SELECTION
Entrance requirement is dance training at the intermediate jazz level with training in additional dance forms as a significant asset. Prospective students must pass an audition in jazz as well as an interview.
To learn more about the audition process, visit
Dance Auditions
.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Our graduates are working! Some of the many places they've found work include:
The commercial dance industry:
performing on cruise lines, at resorts and casinos, as well as touring with children’s productions such as
Franklin the Turtle
.
The project-based dance industry:
applying for funding for their own projects, choreographing, founding companies, joining/forming groups and producing shows, performing at festivals, cabarets, theatres and resorts.
Traditional festivals:
apprenticing, performing and touring with established festivals such as Stratford and the Charlottetown Festivals.
The dance training studio industry, driven by television and live dance competitions:
teaching, choreographing, coaching and judging, as well as founding and taking ownership of their own studios.
The dance fitness and workshop industry:
teaching and developing the expanding market of dance fitness and specialized workshops, and taking this product across Canada and abroad.
The sports and dance teams industry:
cheerleading, and forming and joining dance teams.
Film and television:
appearing in productions and music videos, and developing dance on film projects.
Some graduates continue on to arts and master’s degrees in universities and continued professional development in fields such as circus performance, personal fitness, stage management, nutrition and physical therapies.
Courses
Required Courses
In order to graduate, you must successfully complete all of the required credits and appear in the semester 3 Showcase.
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
DANC 1057
Jazz Dance I
DANC 1058
Hip Hop I
DANC 1059
Chorus Repertoire I
DANC 1060
Acting for Dance I
DANC 1061
Vocal for Dance I
DANC 1062
Ballet I
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
DANC 1064
Jazz Dance II
DANC 1065
Hip Hop II
DANC 1066
Chorus Repertoire II
DANC 1067
Acting for Dance II
DANC 1068
Vocal for Dance II
DANC 1069
Ballet II
DANC 1070
Business Skills for Dancers
DANC 1022
Music Theory
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
DANC 1071
Performance Preparation (Field Education)
DANC 1072
Acting for Dance III
DANC 1073
Vocal for Dance III
DANC 1074
Chorus Repertoire III
DANC 1075
Ballet III
DANC 1085
Hip Hop III
DANC 2012
Jazz Dance III
Showcase rehearsal hours will be scheduled in semesters 2 and 3 and are categorized as in-class mandatory homework hours. These hours will be most intense during semester 3 and leading up to the Showcase performance.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Perform jazz and hip hop dance technique to professional standard in choreographed solo and ensemble productions.
Perform chorus repertoire technique, memorizing and reproducing long movement sequences integrated with vocals, to professional standard in commercial ensemble productions.
Sing at a professional standard using pulse, rhythm, meter, dynamics and accurate pitch in solo and ensemble presentations.
Create and perform artistically expressive dramatic characterizations in a dance context at a professional level for solo and ensemble productions.
Present self professionally at auditions and in industry environments through resumés, biographical backgrounds and photographs during commercial and academic interviews.
Develop self-knowledge and reflective practice to make informed artistic, pedagogical, personal development and career choices within the performing arts industry.
Exercise critical thinking skills to peer evaluate performance, mentor creativity and innovate to inspire projects, peers and students.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$8,254.00* ‡
International Tuition
$28,109.00 ** ‡
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the
three semesters
of programs starting in Fall
2022.
Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the three semesters of the program starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
‡ There will be a $65 audition fee (payable in cash or cheque only) when you arrive on the day of your audition for P101, P105 or P106.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**.
Grade 12 English (C or U).
GBC is accepting audition requests through video submissions. Visit the
Auditions page at Ballet Jörgen
for program audition requirements.
For more information on auditions, please email
auditions@balletjorgen.ca
or visit
Dance Auditions
.
A minimum of five years training in jazz dance; training in additional dance forms is an asset.
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Media and Performing Arts
Kia Kotsanis, Program Co-ordinator
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2196
Email:
dance@georgebrown.ca
or
education@balletjorgen.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered through our
School of Media and Performing Arts
and run in partnership with
Ballet Jörgen
. Classes take place at our
Casa Loma Campus
, located at
160 Kendal Ave
., Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Dance Performance (P105)
Dance Performance Preparation (P101)
Acting for Media (P107)
“As artists, there will be many incredible opportunities to explore new avenues and to grow. You continue to develop and learn throughout your career. I’m really thankful that I’ve been able to fall into all these different spaces that have challenged me.”
Read more about Esie’s story.
Esie Mensah
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.