Computer Systems Technician Program (T141)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Computer Systems Technician
Code:
T141
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,236.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,880.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Computer Technology
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid; Semester 3: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 4: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
Computer Programming and Analysis (T177)
Cyber Security (Postgraduate) (T433)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Our Cisco Networking Academy has won the Premier Partner status for two years in a row for our contributions to the success of students and instructors. We support over 35 other Cisco Networking Academies in North America and are one of only a few academies that have an Instructor Trainer status.
Program Overview
As the Information Technology (IT) sector continues to grow in Toronto and our industry partners report skills shortages, George Brown College is helping to meet employer demand by educating IT professionals who understand all aspects of computer systems. Our two-year Computer Systems Technician program provides students with a broad and in-depth technical base through courses in the high-demand areas of system support, network administration and web technologies. The curriculum prepares graduates with the strong administration, troubleshooting and design skills they need for careers in IT.
Full Description
As the Information Technology (IT) sector continues to grow in Toronto and our industry partners report skills shortages, George Brown College is helping to meet employer demand by educating IT professionals who understand all aspects of computer systems. Our two-year Computer Systems Technician program provides students with a broad and in-depth technical base through courses in the high-demand areas of system support, network administration and web technologies. The curriculum prepares graduates with the strong administration, troubleshooting and design skills they need for careers in IT.
George Brown continues to invest in up-to-date networking, wireless and security lab equipment to help students develop hands-on installation, configuration and troubleshooting skills. Students use the NetLab platform, which enables them with 24/7 remote access to Cisco Systems physical equipment. This investment, along with our hands-on teaching environment, was recognized by Cisco when the college was designated an Area Support Centre and Instructor Training Centre.
Graduates of the Computer Systems Technician program are prepared to write several industry certification exams that are in demand by employers.
Note:
Students who start the program in January (winter term) will be required to attend classes during the summer months (May to August).
Technology Requirements
This program requires students to have access to a personal computer with the following specifications:
16 GB RAM minimum
256 GB SSD Hard Drive (500+ GB is optimal)
Quad-core i7 2.4GHz or better
Video card (2GB RAM minimum/4GB RAM recommended)
Webcam
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Computer system technicians establish, operate, maintain and co-ordinate the use of local and wide area networks (LANs and WANs), software services and related computer equipment. They set up and maintain Internet and Intranet websites and web-server technologies, and monitor and optimize network connectivity and performance. They are employed in Information Technology units throughout the private and public sectors. Supervisors of computer network technicians are included in this group.
Educational Pathways
Opportunities to receive transfer credits toward further study to attain a degree are available.
Courses
Required Courses
PRINTABLE CURRICULUM PLANNER 2023-2024
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
COMP 1151
IT Essentials
COMP 1236
Fundamentals of Computing Logic
COMP 1234
Introduction To Web Development
GSSC 1027
Personal Finance
MATH 1162
Mathematics for Computer Technology I
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
COMP 1176
Introduction to Networks
COMP 3044
Linux Essentials
COMP 1250
Introduction to Programming
COMP 3105
Enterprise Desktop Operating Systems
MATH 1172
Mathematics for Computer Technology II
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
COMP 3136
Network Infrastructure
COMP 2064
Identity Management Services
COMP 2155
Network Automation
COMP 2148
Professional Workplace Competencies
COMP 3066
Linux System Administration
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
COMP 3138
Enterprise Networking and Automation
COMP 2102
Wireless Technology Fundamentals
COMP 2141
Windows Server Network Infrastructure
COMP 2156
DevOps For System Administration
COMP 3061
Cyber Security Fundamentals
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Identify, analyze, develop, implement, verify and document the requirements for a computing environment.
Contribute to the diagnostics, troubleshooting, documenting and monitoring of technical problems using appropriate methodologies and tools.
Implement and maintain secure computing environments.
Implement robust computing system solutions through validation testing that aligns with industry best practices.
Communicate and collaborate with team members and stakeholders to ensure effective working relationships.
Select and apply strategies for personal and professional development to enhance work performance.
Adhere to ethical, legal and regulatory requirements and/or principles in the development and management of computing solutions and systems.
Assist with the implementation of computer systems.
Install, configure, troubleshoot, maintain, upgrade and decommission computing system infrastructures.
Automate routine tasks using scripting tools and programming languages.
Provide technical support for computing system infrastructures that aligns with industry best practice.
Implement the basic concept, principles, and scope of DevOps.
Apply task automation using configuration management and the Cloud.
Automate network administrative tasks across distributed clients.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,236.00 *
International Tuition
$17,880.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Computer Technology
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4287
Email:
computertechnology@georgebrown.ca
The office hours are:
Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Program Co-ordinator: Maziar Masoudi
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 3345
Email:
mmasoudi@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
The Computer Systems Technician program is offered through our
School of Computer Technology
from our
Casa Loma Campus
at
146 Kendal Avenue
. Sign up for an
information session
or
campus tour
to learn more about George Brown College and the program. You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
Computer Programming and Analysis (T177)
Cyber Security (Postgraduate) (T433)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.