Computer Programming and Analysis Program (T177)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Computer Programming and Analysis
Code:
T177
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,266.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,913.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Computer Technology
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid; Semester 3, 5: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 4, 6: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
Computer Systems Technician (T141)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
In today's business landscape, having a sound grasp of Information Technology (IT) is crucial for making informed decisions. This is why IT professionals have become an integral part of the decision-making process in organizations. To meet this demand, George Brown College has developed the Computer Programmer Analyst program, which offers comprehensive training in programming and IT analysis. By enrolling in this program, you can establish a solid foundation for career advancement in the dynamic and constantly evolving world of IT.
PLEASE NOTE: This program is also offered in a fully online format. Please see
Computer Programming and Analysis Online program (T197)
for more details.
Full Description
In today's business landscape, it's rare for organizations to make important decisions without considering the implications of Information Technology (IT). That's why IT professionals are such a crucial part of any successful team. George Brown College recognizes this need and offers a comprehensive three-year (six-semester) Computer Programmer Analyst program. This program provides a strong foundation in programming and IT analysis, which can help you achieve career growth in the fast-paced and constantly evolving world of information technology.
According to the industry's requirements, they are seeking computer programmer analysts who possess a combination of hard and soft skills. The program's initial two years will focus on equipping graduates with the necessary skills and techniques for software application development and testing. The final year will concentrate on developing advanced technical abilities as well as communication, teamwork, and other client service skills.
In this program, you will be exposed to:
Project-based and experiential learning.
Understanding the fast-growing AI and machine-learning strategies and development.
Mobile application development using the latest mobile devices.
*If you enrol in January, you must complete semester 2 in the summer, May to August, in the same year.
Note:
In this rapidly changing industry, program improvements are being made on an ongoing basis, which may result in course changes. Changes are made in consultation with our Program Advisory Committee, which is composed of academic staff and industry representatives from small, medium-size and large corporations.
Technology Requirements
This program requires students to have access to a personal computer with the following specifications:
16 GB RAM minimum
256 GB SSD Hard Drive (500+ GB is optimal)
Quad-core i7 2.4GHz or better
Video card (2GB RAM minimum/4GB RAM recommended)
Webcam
Visual Paradigm
supports George Brown College with the use of
UML tools
,
BPMN tools
and
agile story mapping tools
, under the
Academic Partnership
.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates may find career opportunities in areas such as:
database administration
systems analysis and design
consulting
application design and development
web application design and development
data architect (AI/ Machine Learning)
full-stack developer
mobile application developer
and many others
Opportunities exist for systems development for both corporate clients and smaller contract companies.
As programmer analysts, graduates will work in project teams responsible for developing new applications and maintaining existing business systems.
Educational Pathways
Opportunities to receive transfer credits toward further study to attain a degree are available.
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner 2023-2024
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
COMP 1151
IT Essentials
COMP 1236
Fundamentals of Computing Logic
COMP 1234
Introduction To Web Development
GSSC 1027
Personal Finance
MATH 1162
Mathematics for Computer Technology I
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
COMP 1168
Database Management
COMP 1202
Object-Oriented Programming
COMP 1235
Introduction To Full-Stack Development
COMP 3044
Linux Essentials
MATH 1172
Mathematics for Computer Technology II
GNED
General Education Elective
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
COMP 1230
Advanced Web Programming
COMP 2129
Advanced Object-Oriented Programming
COMP 2130
Application Development using Java
COMP 2138
Advanced Database Development
COMP 2147
System Analysis, Design And Testing
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
COMP 2080
Data Structures and Algorithms
COMP 2139
Web Application Development
COMP 2148
Professional Workplace Competencies
COMP 2151
Agile Software Development
COMP 2152
Open Source Development
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course name
COMP 3059
Capstone Project I
COMP 3074
Mobile Application Development I
COMP 3095
Web Application Development Using Java
COMP 3104
DevOps
COMP 3122
Applied Data Science
COMP 3123
Full Stack Development I
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course name
COMP 3078
Capstone Project II
COMP 3134
Introduction to Cyber Security
COMP 3097
Mobile Application Development II
COMP 3132
Applied Machine Learning
COMP 3133
Full Stack Development II
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Identify, analyze, design, develop, implement, verify and document the requirements for a computing environment.
Diagnose, troubleshoot, document and monitor technical problems using appropriate methodologies and tools.
Analyze, design, implement and maintain secure computing environments.
Analyze, develop and maintain robust computing system solutions through validation testing and industry best practices.
Communicate and collaborate with team members and stakeholders to ensure effective working relationships.
Select and apply strategies for personal and professional development to enhance work performance.
Apply project management principles and tools when responding to requirements and monitoring projects within a computing environment.
Adhere to ethical, social media, legal, regulatory and economic requirements and/or principles in developing and managing computing solutions and systems.
Investigate emerging trends to respond to technical challenges.
Gather, analyze and define software system specifications based on functional and non-functional requirements.
Design, develop, document, implement, maintain and test software systems by using industry-standard software development methodologies based on defined specifications and existing technologies/frameworks.
Select and apply object-oriented and other design concepts and principles, as well as business requirements, to the software development process.
Gather requirements and model, design, implement, optimize and maintain data storage solutions.
Integrate network communications into software solutions by adhering to protocol standards.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,266.00 *
International Tuition
$17,913.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Computer Technology
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4287
Email:
computertechnology@georgebrown.ca
The office hours are:
Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Program Co-ordinator: Maziar Masoudi
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 3345
Email:
mmasoudi@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
The Computer Programmer Analyst program is offered through our
School of Computer Technology
from our
Casa Loma Campus
at
146 Kendal Avenue
. Sign up for an
information session
or
campus tour
to learn more about George Brown College and the program. You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
Computer Systems Technician (T141)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.