Construction Management Program (for Internationally Educated Professionals) (Postgraduate) (T403)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Construction Management
Code:
T403
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$12,305.00 *
International Tuition:
$26,291.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field experience in semester 3
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus; Semester 3: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus; Semester 2: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Building Information Modeling Management (BIM) (Postgraduate) (T412)
Residential Construction Management (Postgraduate) (T408)
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T312)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Ontario’s first graduate certificate in Construction Management for internationally educated professionals.
95 per cent of graduates gain full-time employment in the construction sector.
Program Overview
This 1-year program is eligible for
a $20,000 scholarship.
*
Take your career to the next level. This Construction Management graduate certificate program is designed to meet the needs of internationally trained construction managers and construction professionals, enabling them to apply their prior knowledge and skills and qualify for in-demand, rewarding jobs in the Canadian construction industry.
*Domestic students only — see page for details.
Full Description
This three-semester graduate certificate program provides applied education for construction management positions in the construction sector. Candidates will receive graduate-level training that builds on their internationally acquired education and experience to enable them to successfully enter the Canadian construction workforce.
Your Field Education Options
This three-semester graduate certificate program includes a field experience semester in semester 3 to help students transition into the job market.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
There is a demand in the rapidly growing and increasingly specialized construction industry for construction project managers. Today’s building industry requires professional managers who can function successfully in multidisciplinary teams consisting of project managers, architects, engineers, regulators, environmental consultants, urban planners, contractors and trade contractors.
Managers also require a comprehensive understanding of quality management systems and sustainable building practices, and a deep and broad technical background in the construction industry.
Some examples of positions include:
construction project co-ordinator
estimator
site superintendent
inspector
construction planner and scheduler
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
BLDG 1172
Communication for Construction Managers
BLDG 1174
Construction Plans and Estimating 1
BLDG 1175
Construction Industry Practices
BLDG 1187
Pre-Construction Management Practice
BLDG 1188
Construction Project Planning and Scheduling
BLDG 1196
Construction Methods and Materials
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
BLDG 1173
Construction Contract Law
BLDG 1177
Construction Surveying
BLDG 1180
Ontario Building Code
BLDG 1186
Construction Plans and Estimating 2
BLDG 1194
Construction Project Management
HSAF 1182
Construction Health and Safety
BLDG 1189
Field Experience Preparation
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
BLDG 1191
Field Experience (450h)
BLDG 1197
Construction Business Management (online)
BLDG 1198
Leadership and Ethics for Construction Managers (online)
The program is continuously reviewed and adjusted to meet the needs of the construction industry and therefore may be subject to change.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Develop and use strategies to promote continuous professional learning in the construction industry.
Monitor and support workplace health and safety practices and procedures that are compliant with current legislation and regulations.
Assess construction project operations for compliance with contractual obligations, applicable laws, standards, bylaws, codes and ethical practices in the construction industry.
Analyze and monitor construction processes to ensure that sustainability practices are implemented in accordance with contract documents, industry standards and environmental legislative requirements.
Establish and manage relationships among diverse project stakeholders to achieve construction project goals.
Manage the production, storage, retrieval and communication of project-related digital documents according to best practices, to meet construction project deadlines and goals.
Perform a feasibility study to inform decisions in the planning phase of a construction project.
Schedule, manage and evaluate the progression of construction projects by applying the principles, practices and tools of construction project management to complete projects on time and within budget.
Prepare estimates and manage procurement processes to control costs in accordance with best practices in construction project management.
Develop and oversee quality assurance and control processes involved in the completion of construction projects to meet project specifications and industry quality standards.
Analyze and manage project risks to mitigate their impact throughout the construction project lifecycle.
Formulate human resource management strategies to optimize personnel requirements for construction project completion.
Build and lead multidisciplinary teams throughout the construction project lifecycle to accomplish construction project goals.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$12,305.00 *
International Tuition
$26,291.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the entire program starting in the Fall 2022. Fees are subject to change for programs/semester starting in Fall 2023/Winter 2024 and later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the
three
semesters of the program starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
Domestic
Total tuition for the program is $12,305.00* and it can be paid in 3 instalments as follows:
(due date for winter semester fees) - 4,215.00 - semester 1
(due date for spring semester fees) - 3,933.00 - semester 2
(due date for fall semester fees) - 4,157.00 - semester 3
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
International bachelor’s degree* or three-year diploma* in Construction, Civil, Mechanical, Electrical and Landscape Engineering, Architectural Studies and Interior Design.
A resumé outlining your roles and responsibilities in your professional career.
An employer’s reference letter corroborating the information on your resumé.
Demonstrated relevant professional construction work experience – a resumé including roles and responsibilities, and an employer’s reference on formal letterhead are required, preferably in PDF format.
*
Please note that domestic applicants who are submitting international transcripts require a Canadian equivalency evaluation. This can be obtained through ICAS (International Credential Assessment Service) at
icascanada.ca
or WES (World Education Services) at
wes.org/ca
. We recommend that you provide a comprehensive ( course-by-course) evaluation for consideration, as this will be required when assessing your application package. We will also accept general evaluations, which show the Canadian equivalency, however if a general evaluation is provided, we will also require a course-by-course translation in support of your application
English Language Proficiency
George Brown College ESL Level 9; TOEFL 88 (online) or 570 (paper), 213 (Computer), 80 (Online)-20 each skill band; IELTS 6.5(overall), minimum 6.0 (each skill band); MELAB 85; CAEL 70 (overall); CLB 8
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Laptop specifications:
Processor: 9th Generation Intel® Core™ i7-9750H (12MB Cache, up to 4.5 GHz, 6 cores).
Memory (RAM): 16GB (2x8GB DDR4 2666MHz) or32 GB (4x8GB DDR4 266MHz) for T412 program.
Disk Space: 256GB M.2 PCIe NVMe Solid State Drive (Boot) + 1TB 5400 rpm 2.5" SATA Hard Drive (Storage).
Display Card: NVIDIA® GeForce RTX™ 2060 6GB GDDR6.
Connectivity: 802.11ac WiFi and Bluetooth, 2 x 2.
Ports: 1x HDMI 2.0; 3x SuperSpeed USB 3.1 Gen 1 Type-A including 1x with PowerShare; 1x 2-in-1 SD / MicroMedia Card slot; 1x Wedge lock slot.
Operating System: Windows 10 Home 64-bit English.
Screen Size: Minimum 15.6 inch FHD(1920 x 1080) 300nits IPS Anti-Glare LED Backlit display with 144Hz refresh rate Or Minimum 17+ for T412 program.
Audio: 1 combo headphone / microphone jack.
Recommendations:
Do not purchase a laptop until you have been accepted and registered in your program.
Do not purchase a Mac laptop because many of the programs used will not run on a Mac and you will have difficulty in completing assignments.
Purchase a PC-based laptop with specifications meeting or exceeding those given above.
Arrange for home Internet: 25 Mbps; ping time 20 ms–100 ms.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 6297
Email:
construction_mgmt@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room E228.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Building Information Modeling Management (BIM) (Postgraduate) (T412)
Residential Construction Management (Postgraduate) (T408)
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T312)
“Wherever I go, if I say I’m from George Brown, there will be several people in the room who say ‘Oh yes, me too, let’s talk about it.’ It’s a great conversation starter.”
Alena Tokareva
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.