Construction Engineering Technician Program (T161)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Construction Engineering Technician
Code:
T161
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,928.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,545.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Experiential Learning
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus; Semester 3: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 4: On Campus; Semester 2: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Construction Engineering Technology (T105)
Civil Engineering Technology (T164)
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T312)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This 2-year program is eligible for
a $40,000 scholarship.
*
Construction engineering technicians work with home builders and general contractors, bid for construction work and organize and supervise the participation of various trades involved in a construction project. This two-year Construction Engineering Technician diploma program provides the technical skills and knowledge required to assist in all phases of residential, small commercial and industrial construction projects.
*Domestic students only — see page for details.
Full Description
The Construction Engineering Technician program studies the characteristics of various building types.  The program focuses on:
interpretation of construction documents
on-site building engineering and safety
project costs (labour, materials and equipment)
building codes and construction contracts
site management practices
construction surveying
building materials
construction graphics and detailing
*If you enrol in the program in January, you are required to complete semester 2 in the summer (May to August) of the same year in order to continue into semester 3 in the fall.
Your Field Education Options
Please contact the Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management for updated information regarding field education and experiential learning options.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates from this program enter the industry as:
construction technicians
construction site managers
project and construction managers
construction estimators
home builders
general contractors
building and home inspectors
construction technical sales agents
Graduates may even choose to start their own businesses.
Industry
Construction is the engine that drives the GTA and Ontario economies. In 2019, the industry generated over 360,000 on-site and off-site jobs, paid more than $22 billion in wages and created almost $43 billion in Ontario’s built environment. Nationally, the construction industry employs one out of every 14 working Canadians. However, there remains a shortage of educated and highly skilled workers in the sector.
With an expanding regional transit network stimulating redevelopment and growth and population and demographic shifts at the heart of a demand surge for housing, the GTA has the largest construction activity of any region in Canada. In fact, the City of Toronto continues to report the highest number of construction cranes of any city in North America.
Despite the recent challenges, the construction sector in Ontario remains strong, led by significant government investment and continued demand for housing.
School of Construction Management Program Advisory Committee (PAC) has an engaged committee with a good and broad representation of the industry. Members contribute their ideas and opinions with respect to curriculum changes, industry trends, awards and scholarships, competitions, special events, work experience and mentoring for students.
Educational Pathways
Option to continue to third year of Construction Engineering Technology Program (T105) for an Advanced Diploma. Join the waiting list before your fourth semester.
Pathways to the Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) degree program are also available after completing the three-year Construction Engineering Technology program. Minimum of 3.0 GPA required.
For more information, see
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
Please note:
Thus program is undergoing current review and courses after year 1 are expected to change in the 2023-24 year.
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
BLDG 1025
Construction Field Practices
BLDG 1126
Print and Specifications Reading for Construction Technology 1
BLDG 1127
Construction Management 1 -– Introduction and Overview
BLDG 1028
AutoCad for Construction Technology
BLDG 1042
Construction Materials Methods 1
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH 1140
Mathematics for Construction Technology 1
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
BLDG 1073
Construction Materials Laboratory
BLDG 1077
Construction Health and Safety
BLDG 1078
Revit for Construction Technology
BLDG 1129
Construction Estimating 1
BLDG 1136
Print and Specifications Reading for Construction Technology 2
BLDG 1145
Construction Materials and Methods 2
BLDG1165
Introduction to Building Science
MATH 1150
Mathematics for Construction Technology 2
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
BLDG 2061
Mechanics of Materials 1 – Statics
BLDG 2090
Principles of Construction Law
BLDG 2021
Construction Management 2 – Planning and Scheduling
BLDG 2019
Construction Estimating 2
BLDG 1076
Building Code 1
BLDG 3060
Applied Building Science
COMM 1113
Professional Communications for Building Technologies
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
BLDG 2065
Mechanics of Materials 2 – Strength of Materials
BLDG 2046
Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing (MEP) Systems
BLDG 3004
Construction Pricing
BLDG 2076
Building Codes 2
BLDG 2045
Construction Management 3 – Site Operations
BLDG 2068
Workplace Skills for Construction Technology
GNED
General Education Elective
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Develop and use strategies to enhance professional growth and ongoing learning in the construction engineering field.
Comply with workplace health and safety practices and procedures in accordance with current legislation and regulations.
Complete duties in compliance with contractual obligations, applicable laws, standards, bylaws, codes and ethical practices in the construction engineering field.
Carry out sustainability practices in accordance with contract documents, industry standards and environmental legislative requirements.
Collaborate with and facilitate communication among project stakeholders to support construction projects.
Collect, process and interpret technical data to produce written and graphical project-related documents.
Contribute to the collecting, interpreting and applying of survey/geomatics and layout information to implement construction projects.
Identify and use industry-specific electronic and digital technologies to support the design and construction of projects.
Contribute to the resolution of technical problems related to the design and implementation of construction projects by applying engineering concepts, basic technical mathematics, and building science.
Assist in the scheduling and monitoring of the progression of construction projects by applying principles of construction project management.
Assist in the preparation of accurate estimates of time, cost, quality and quantity, tenders and bids.
Perform quality control testing and monitoring of equipment, materials and methods involved in the implementation and completion of construction projects.
Apply teamwork, leadership and interpersonal skills when working individually or within multidisciplinary teams to complete work on construction projects.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,928.00 *
International Tuition
$17,545.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Laptop & Internet Specifications
The Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management strongly recommends that students own or purchase a laptop and arrange for home internet service with 25 to 40 Mbps and a ping time of 20–100 ms.
The laptop specifications should meet or exceed the following specifications:
operating system:
Windows 10 Home 64-bit English
processor:
9th Generation Intel® Core™ i7-9750H (12MB Cache, up to 4.5 GHz, 6 cores)
memory (RAM):
16GB (2x8GB  DDR4 2666MHz)
disk space:
256GB M.2 PCIe NVMe Solid State Drive (Boot) + 1TB 5400 rpm 2.5" SATA Hard Drive (Storage)
display card:
NVIDIA® GeForce RTX™ 2060 6GB GDDR6
connectivity:
802.11ac WiFi and Bluetooth, 2 x 2
ports:
1x HDMI 2.0; 3x SuperSpeed USB 3.1 Gen 1 Type-A including 1x with PowerShare; 1x 2-in-1 SD / MicroMedia Card slot; 1x Wedge lock slot
screen size:
minimum 15.6 inch FHD(1920 x 1080) 300nits IPS Anti-Glare LED backlit display with 144Hz refresh rate
audio:
1 combo headphone / microphone jack
The purchase of a Mac laptop is not recommended because many of the programs do not run on the Mac platform operating system.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4398
Email:
construction_eng@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room E228.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Construction Engineering Technology (T105)
Civil Engineering Technology (T164)
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T312)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.