Construction Techniques Program (T176)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Construction Techniques
Code:
T176
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,791.00 *
International Tuition:
$26,012.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Apprenticeship & Skilled Trades
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Construction Engineering Technology (T105)
Building Renovation Technology (T148)
Carpentry and Renovation Technician (T180)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This 1-year program is eligible for
a $20,000 scholarship.
*
Make more than a living. Build the future by entering the Trades. This Construction Techniques program is designed to provide you with choices when considering a career in the Skilled Trades sector. It exposes you to a variety of trades allowing you to determine which one interests you the most.
*Domestic students only — see page for details.
Full Description
The Construction Techniques program covers popular construction trade areas and has three intakes per year.
This program is designed to offer you choices when considering a career in the construction sector. It exposes you to a variety of trades allowing you to determine where your interests lie. The program will prepare you with basic skills that will assist you in taking the next steps in your career path.
Semester 1:
Electrical/Millwrighting
Semester 2:
Sheet Metal/Air Conditioning/Carpentry
Semester 3:
Welding/Steamfitting/Plumbing
Through practical projects interwoven with theoretical learning, you will gain confidence and experience in the individual trade sections, giving you the information necessary to make informed career choices as well as a good understanding of the construction process.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
As a graduate of the program, you can bring a broad range of skills to future employers. Once you have decided which sector of the industry interests you, you can seek employment in that area or increase your marketability and knowledge by continuing on to a one-year, two-year or three-year program at George Brown College.
Industry
The construction industry is one of the country’s largest employers, and skilled trades workers are among the highest-paid and most in demand in Canada.
Ontario will need to attract over 100,000 new construction workers over the next 10 years.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
BLDG 1124
Electrical Trade Theory
BLDG 1125
Introduction to Electrical – Code and Prints
BLDG 1121
Electrical Trade Shop
BLDG 1122
Technical Drawing
BLDG 1123
Millwrighting Trade Shop
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
BLDG 1132
Carpentry Trade Theory
BLDG 1133
Carpentry Trade Shop
BLDG 1134
Trade Calculations
BLDG 1135
Refrigeration Trade Theory
BLDG 1137
Sheet Metal Trade Theory
BLDG 1138
Refrigeration Trade Shop
BLDG 1139
Sheet Metal Trade Shop
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
BLDG 1110
Welding Trade Theory
BLDG 1111
Welding Trade Shop
BLDG 1112
Plumbing Trade Theory
BLDG 1113
Plumbing Trade Shop
BLDG 1114
Trade Documentation
GNED
General Education Elective
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Identify and use strategies to enhance professional growth and ongoing learning in the construction field.
Identify and adhere to established health and safety practices.
Perform all construction tasks in compliance with applicable laws, regulations, codes and ethical practices in the construction field.
Work in accordance with established sustainability practices.
Collaborate with a range of tradespersons and project stakeholders to maintain effective working relationships.
Communicate technical information to a variety of clients, supervisors and tradespersons to participate in the successful completion of construction projects.
Identify and use industry-specific technologies to support construction projects.
Solve on-site trade-related construction problems using mathematical equations and geometric concepts.
Select, maintain and safely operate hand and power tools and equipment used in the building construction trades.
Assist in the preparation of project estimates.
Assist skilled tradespersons and perform labouring tasks at construction sites.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,791.00 *
International Tuition
$26,012.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the three semesters of the program starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Apprenticeship and Skilled Trades
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 6711
Email:
skilledtrades@georgebrown.ca
Office: Casa Loma Campus, Room E308
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Construction Engineering Technology (T105)
Building Renovation Technology (T148)
Carpentry and Renovation Technician (T180)
“If you like a little bit of everything, like I do, or you’re still feeling out what works best for you, this program is a fantastic opportunity. Each semester is full of different trades and new experiences. I have learned so much, not just in theory, but in practice too. It has been an unbelievably valuable experience. I love understanding the overlap the trades have with one another!”
Alicia Parrott-Barros
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.