Culinary Skills Program (Preparatory Training) (A110)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Culinary Skills
Code:
A110
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 semesters
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
This program is free for participants.
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Work & College Preparation
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Program includes classroom and kitchen lab instruction, 150 hours of work placement and workshops.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Open
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Culinary Skills (H134)
Culinary Management (H100)
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This program was developed in collaboration with the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH) and is unique in Canada.
Program Overview
George Brown College’s Culinary Skills (A110)
is a free, supported education program for individuals who identify mental health and/or addictions challenges as a barrier to education and employment. In a small-group, hands-on setting, with experiential work opportunities and job coaching support, the program prepares students for entry-level work in Toronto's food service industry.
This program, developed in collaboration with the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH), is designed for students who see work as part of their recovery process and is unique in Canada.
Full Description
The Culinary Skills (A110) program at George Brown College is one of two innovative
Augmented Education
employment-focused programs designed to support those with a history of mental health and/or addiction challenges by addressing common employment barriers that exist.
Developed in collaboration with the
Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH)
, this free program provides training to support employment in the food service industry. It is offered to students who see work as part of their recovery process and helps those recovering from mental health and/or addictions challenges to take the first step toward a job in Toronto’s food service industry.
Culinary Skills Program Overview:
unique in Canada
free, two-semester, full-time program
starts in September
includes classroom and kitchen lab instruction
class and kitchen lab time approximately 30 to 35 hours per week
150 hours of work placement and workshops
tutoring and support are available from program coaches
students graduate with an Ontario College Certificate
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of George Brown's Culinary Skills program will be qualified for entry-level food preparation jobs in commercial food service, cafeterias, fast food outlets, restaurants and catering operations.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOSF 1233
Baking Pastry and Theory – Basic
HOSF 1002
Baking and Pastry for Cooks
HOSF 1202
Culinary Foundations
HOSF 1029
Theory of Food I
HOSF 1145
Sanitation
HOSF 1237
Field Integration/Workshops I
MATH 1000
Mathematics Foundations for Hospitality
HOSF 1255
Nutrition Fundamentals from a Culinary Perspective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HOSF 1185
Fundamentals of Butchery
HOSF 1203
Culinary Essentials
HOSF 1241
Field Integration/Workshops II
HOSF 1242
Baking Techniques II
HOST 1005
Food Beverage and Labour Cost Control
HOSF 1244
Industry Practicum
MATH 1102
Math for Hospitality
HOSF 1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR
HOSF 1184
Café Production
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Provide fundamental culinary preparation and presentation for a variety of food service environments using a range of classical and contemporary techniques.
Apply basic food and bake science to food preparation to create a desired end product.
Contribute to and monitor adherence of others to the provision of a well-maintained kitchen environment and to the service of food and beverage products that are free from harmful bacteria or other contaminants, adhering to health, safety, sanitation and food-handling regulations.
Ensure the safe operation of the kitchen and all aspects of food preparation to promote healthy work spaces and the responsible, efficient use of resources.
Support the development of menu options that reflect knowledge of nutrition and food ingredients, promote general health and well-being, respond to a range of nutritional needs and preferences and address modifications for special diets, food allergies and intolerances, as required.
Apply fundamental business principles and recognized industry costing and control practices to food service operations to promote a fiscally responsible operation.
Apply basic knowledge of sustainability, ethical and local food sourcing, and food security to food preparation and kitchen management, recognizing the potential impacts on food production, consumer choice and operations within the food service industry.
Use technology, including contemporary kitchen equipment, for food production and promotion.
Perform effectively as a member of a food and beverage preparation and service team and contribute to the success of a food-service operation by applying self-management and interpersonal skills.
Develop strategies for continuous personal and professional learning to ensure currency with and responsiveness to emerging culinary techniques, regulations, and practices in the food service industry.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
This program is free for participants.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent
mental health and/or addictions history
mature student status (19 years of age or older)
Intake process involves all of the following:
application completion
academic assessment
skills assessment
interview
Course Exemptions
Due to the nature of this employment focused program, it is only offered in block format and as such cannot accommodate course exemptions.
Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
How to Apply
Download the application package
or call the Augmented Education office at 416-415-5000, ext. 6790 or email a request to
auged@georgebrown.ca
.
Pour des services en français, veuillez communiquer avec nous au 416-415-5000, poste 3111 ou par courriel à
frenchserviceinfo@georgebrown.ca
.
Contact Us
For more information or to receive an application package, contact the Augmented Education program office at 416-415-5000, ext. 6790, or send an email request to
auged@georgebrown.ca
.
Pour des services en français, veuillez communiquer avec nous au 416-415-5000, poste 3111 ou par courriel à
frenchserviceinfo@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Visit Our Campus
Thinking about attending George Brown? The Culinary skills program is taught at our St. James Campus at
300 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, Ontario.
Information sessions
for Culinary Skills are held regularly at the Hospitality Building at George Brown College.
Sign up!
Book a general
campus tour
to see the common areas of the campus (i.e. cafeteria, student services, the gym, etc.). Choose "Work and College Preparation" as your area of interest.
You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Culinary Skills (H134)
Culinary Management (H100)
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.