Culinary Arts – Italian Program (Postgraduate) (H411)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Culinary Arts – Italian
Code:
H411
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 semesters
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$12,537.00 * ‡ ^
International Tuition:
$32,448.00 ** ‡ ^
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing, and that is why we have incorporated work-integrated learning opportunities into all CHCA programs.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Not Available
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 3: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Culinary Management (H100)
Culinary Skills (H134)
Advanced French Patisserie (Postgraduate) (H413)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Do you want to learn Italian cooking? Elevate your career by joining this specialized Italian culinary and culture program; learn from the experts here in Canada and live, learn and work in Italy, too! Acquire the techniques that make Italian cuisine famous around the world. Experience the special connection between food and life in Italy. Embrace the kitchen experiences and courses in Italian art and culture that will deepen your understanding of this great tradition. The Culinary Arts – Italian postgraduate program delivers this and more.
Full Description
Through this program, you will:
Experience hands-on learning in both Canada and Italy with pre-eminent Italian chef professors in the country.
Build your knowledge of Italian culinary traditions and embrace emerging trends in Italian cuisine.
Benefit from our partnership with ALMA, the world-famous Scuola Internazionale di Cucina Italiana, near Parma, Italy, which is one of Italy’s finest chef schools.
Experience the vineyards, cheese producers and local markets of Italy as your open-air classroom.
Study in some of the best restaurants and hotels in Italy, where you will get attention, training and an inspiring experience.
You will put theory into practice as you are showcased alongside Italian top talent and serve discerning urban diners in the heart of Toronto’s culinary scene. After your experiences in Italy, showcase what you’ve learned at The Chefs' House, George Brown's signature restaurant.
This program has a long-standing reputation for excellence among Italian restaurateurs in Toronto and beyond, which will make you a sought-after employee when you graduate.
To get a taste of this exciting program, check out our Interactive Culinary Arts – Italian flipbook.
Program Schedule
The schedule for the Culinary Arts – Italian postgraduate program currently operates from Monday to Friday.
Note: some classes may begin at 7 a.m. and others may run until 10 p.m.
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Your Field Education Options
Study in some of the best restaurants and hotels in Italy, where you will receive individual attention, training and an inspiring experience. George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities within Culinary Management they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the learning outcomes of the program. This valuable work experience can be added to your resumé.
In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide learning opportunities with real-world challenges and clients.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
A knowledge of Italian cooking opens up an abundance of opportunities in Toronto, which has one of the largest Italian populations of any city outside Italy. Wherever you go, there are Italian restaurants, many specializing in one of the regional variations of Italian cuisine. All of these options mean you will have a dynamic and varied career.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOSF 1150
Italian Art and Culture: A Culinary Perspective
HOSF 1151
Italian Language
HOSF 1152
Fundamentals of Italian Cooking – Theory and Practical
HOSF 1153
Dynamics of Italian Food and Wine
HOSF 1154
Italian Pastry
SEMESTER 2 (ITALY)
Code
Course Name
HOSF 1164
Italian Externship – Stage (12 weeks)
HOSF 4016
Italian Culinary Cuisine Concepts
HOSF 4018
Italian Product Knowledge
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
HOSF 1170
The Slow Food Experience
HOSF 1173
Integrated Marketing Management for Restaurant Operations
HOSF 1174
Fundamentals of Italian Cooking II – Capstone Evaluation
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Create and implement an authentic Italian menu, including food preparation and service, and the selection of wines that reflect the regional differences found in Italy.
Converse in basic Italian and use the correct Italian terminology within a culinary operation.
Identify, assess and select appropriate food products for authentic Italian cuisine.
Integrate with Italian culture through the use of language, interpersonal interactions and professional conduct.
Prepare Italian cuisine within Canadian and EU health, safety and nutrition regulations, standards, guidelines and processes.
Develop and present a marketing plan for a restaurant consistent with regional demographics and culture.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$12,537.00 * ‡ ^
International Tuition
$32,448.00 ** ‡ ^
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, ancillary fees, student service and materials (includes daily classes, tours and accommodation at ALMA Cooking School
†
) for the
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees (includes daily classes, tours and accommodation at ALMA Cooking School†) for the
three
semesters of the program starting in Spring
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice.
‡
Additional Cost
Description
TITLE
COST
Uniform
$290
Knives and small wares
$500–$700
Italian language books and manuals
$150
Black safety shoes
$110–$160
Airfare to Italy
†
(approximate)
$1,400-$1,800
Visa fee (approximate)
$75-$85
†(approximate) based on exchange rate, applicable taxes, double occupancy and airport transfer. Fees do not include transfer costs to placements. Students must also pay a €200 damage deposit on ALMA accommodation, refundable upon checking out.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
diploma or bachelor's degree in Culinary Management
OR
one-year certificate in Culinary Skills program or Advanced Cook certification AND a minimum of one-year relevant work experience (resumé and references required)
OR
a diploma or bachelor's degree in an unrelated field AND a minimum of one-year full-time relevant work experience (resumé and references required)
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English language proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Students are required to have valid WHMIS and Sanitation certification prior to the start of the program. If you do not have these certifications you are required to arrange completion of them, at your own expense. Please contact the Program Coordinator for further information.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens including nuts, dairy and shellfish are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
CULINARY ARTS – ITALIAN (H411)
For general Chef School inquiries, please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Culinary Management (H100)
Culinary Skills (H134)
Advanced French Patisserie (Postgraduate) (H413)
After deciding to pursue a long-term interest in the restaurant industry, Sonya Franceschini was immediately drawn to the Culinary Arts – Italian program at George Brown, the only program in Ontario with an exclusive partnership with ALMA Scuola di Cucina.
The reputation of the George Brown Chef School appealed to her, as did the four-month externship in Italy that comprises the second semester of the program.
After being accepted into the program and starting school, Sonya was struck by how small and well organized the classes were. “It was a highly professional atmosphere,” she says. “And because it’s a postgraduate program, everyone was really enthusiastic to be there.”
Sonya Franceschini
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.