Culinary Management Program (Integrated Learning) (H116)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Culinary Management
Code:
H116
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 consecutive semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$8,822.00 * †
International Tuition:
$29,652.00 ** †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing and that is why we have incorporated work integrated learning opportunities into all CHCA programs.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3, 4: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3, 4: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Culinary Management (H100)
Culinary Skills (H134)
Culinary Management – Nutrition (H119)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Located in the heart of downtown Toronto, George Brown puts you at the centre of Canada's culinary industry. This innovative Culinary Management (Integrated Learning) program takes an integrated experiential approach to learning, with industry placement, in-school studies, online and self-study learning. It was created to meet the immediate culinary industry need for highly skilled Culinary Management graduates with real-world kitchen experience and an understanding of important trends such as the use of local foods, nutrition and growing international influence.
Full Description
This program was developed to enable integrated learning involving you, the college and our industry partners. It was created to meet the immediate industry need for highly skilled Culinary Management graduates with real-world kitchen experience and chef training.
In this program, you will work toward a Culinary Management diploma in four consecutive semesters. While this program is designed to deliver the same learning outcomes as
Culinary Management (H100)
, you will also benefit from semesters 3 and 4, integrated directly with industry.
In the first semester, you will learn the fundamental culinary skills and theories required to work in a modern kitchen, and essential industry employability skills such as communications and mathematics for hospitality. In the second semester, you will develop more advanced culinary skills and broaden your food, wine and culinary culture knowledge as you prepare to enter your field placements.
In the third semester, you will experience the culinary industry first-hand during your residency at our state-of-the-art learning facilities,
The Chefs’ House
or
The Café
, where you will work alongside emerging top talent while serving a public of discerning urban diners. This experience is concurrent with in-class and online theory-based Chef School courses to support your learning and development.
In the fourth semester, you will complete your studies with an integrated 14-week industry residency at one of our leading culinary and hospitality industry partners, concurrent with online theory-based courses. The online asynchronous learning forum allows for either local or international placements.
This integrated program is ideal for self-motivated individuals who want to increase their culinary industry employability prospects upon graduation.
Program Schedule
The schedule for the Culinary Management (Integrated Learning) program currently operates from Monday to Friday. Note: some classes may begin at 7 a.m. and others may run until 10 p.m.
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Your Field Education Options
In the third semester, you will experience the culinary industry first-hand during your residency at our state-of-the-art learning restaurant,
The Chefs’ House
, or at
The Café.
In the fourth semester, you will complete your studies with an integrated 14-week industry residency at one of our leading culinary and hospitality industry partners, concurrent with online theory-based courses.
George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities within Culinary Management they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the program learning outcomes.
This valuable work experience can be added to your resumé. In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide learning opportunities with real-world challenges and customers.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
A world of opportunities awaits you when you graduate. Toronto alone has more than 9,000 restaurants, hotel dining rooms, cafés and eateries, as well as numerous clubs and resorts, spas and catering companies. The skills you learn at George Brown are in demand by employers both in Canada and internationally, and you will have the training to build a successful career at home or around the world.​
Educational Pathways
Graduates may be eligible for direct entry into several George Brown College programs, including
Culinary Arts – Italian
,
Food and Nutrition Management
(additional Accounting course required),
Advanced French Patisserie
, and the third year of our
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management)
and
Honours Bachelor of Food Studies
programs. (Additional courses required.)
For further information, see our
transfer guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
CMDI 1002
Baking and Pastry for Cooks*
CMDI 1068
Smart Serve
CMDI 1202
Culinary Foundations*
CMDI 1203
Culinary Essentials*
CMDI 1029
Theory of Food I (Sanitation Certificate included)
CMDI 1145
Sanitation
CMDI 1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
CMDI 1184
Café Production*
CMDI 1185
Fundamentals of Butchery*
CMDI 1296
Beverage and Service Fundamentals*
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH1200
Culinary Math Essentials
GSCI1035
Science of Sustainability
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
CMDI 1287
WHMIS
CMDI 1204
Culinary Principles*
CMDI 1205
Culinary Concepts*
CMDI 1030
Theory of Food II
CMDI1297
The Sustainable Chef*
CMDI 1126
Career Preparation*
CMDI 1166
Foods of the World*
CMDI 1255
Nutrition Fundamentals from a Culinary Perspective (hybrid)
CMDI 1005
Food, Beverage and Labour Cost Control (hybrid)
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
CMDI 2022
Field Placement
CMDI 2081
Hospitality Leadership and Communication
CMDI 2024
Marriage of Food and Wine
GNED
General Education Elective (online)
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
CMDI 2076
Industry Mentor/Externship
CMDI 2064
Human Resources* (online)
CMDI 2077
Marketing* (online)
GNED
General Education Elective (online)
* seven-week course
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM1000 Introduction to College Communication before progressing to COMM2000 College English. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Provide advanced culinary planning, preparation and presentation for a variety of food service environments using a range of classical and contemporary techniques.
Apply basic and advanced food and bake science to food preparation to create the desired end product.
Contribute to and monitor adherence of others to the provision of a well-maintained kitchen environment and to the service of food and beverage products that are free from harmful bacteria or other contaminants, adhering to health, safety, sanitation and food-handling regulations.
Ensure the safe operation of the kitchen and all aspects of food preparation to promote healthy workspaces, responsible kitchen management and efficient use of resources.
Create menus that reflect knowledge of nutrition and food ingredients, promote general health and well-being, respond to a range of nutritional needs and preferences, and address modifications for special diets, food allergies and intolerances, as required.
Apply business principles and recognized industry costing and control practices to food service operations to manage and promote a fiscally responsible operation.
Apply knowledge of sustainability, ethical and local food sourcing, and food security to food preparation and kitchen management, recognizing the potential impacts on food production, consumer choice and operations within the food service industry.
Select and use technology, including contemporary kitchen equipment, for food production and promotion.
Perform effectively as a food and beverage preparation and service team member and contribute to the success of a food-service operation by applying self-management and interpersonal skills.
Develop strategies for continuous personal and professional learning to ensure currency with and responsiveness to emerging culinary techniques, regulations and practices in the foodservice industry.
Contribute to the development of marketing strategies that promote the successful operation of a food service business.
Contribute to the business management of a variety of food and beverage operations to foster an engaging work environment that reflects service excellence.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$8,822.00 * †
International Tuition
$29,652.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates. Fees for the fourth semester will be billed separately.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the three semesters of the program starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
† Additional Cost
Description
Cost
Small wares
$100–$300
Books
$400**
Note:
Semester 1 tuition fees include the cost of a culinary kit, safety shoes, and Chef School uniform.
Please view the following for a detailed list of what is contained in the culinary kit:
George Brown Culinary Kit Detailed List
George Brown Culinary Kit Visual
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
Grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens including nuts, dairy and shellfish are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances. However, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
CULINARY MANAGEMENT – INTEGRATED LEARNING (H116)
For general Chef School inquiries, please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Culinary Management (H100)
Culinary Skills (H134)
Culinary Management – Nutrition (H119)
“I’ve had the most incredible experience working during my internships and part-time work. I owe it all to the contacts I’ve made through George Brown College.”
Miriam Streiman
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.