Denturism Program (S101)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Denturism
Code:
S101
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$20,158.00 * †
International Tuition:
$36,030.00 ** †
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Dental Health
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Students have the opportunity to organize their own external field experience in an oral health-care setting.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 3, 5: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2, 4, 6: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Dental Technology (S100)
Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) (S113)
Hearing Instrument Specialist (S117)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing graduates to work as Denturists for over 40 years.
Program Overview
Students in the Denturism program are educated within the guidelines of the denturist’s scope of practice. This includes assessment, treatment planning, design, fabrication and maintenance of various dental prostheses and oral devices.
Full Description
The Denturism program prepares students to provide care as
independent oral health care professionals
.
This program is approved
by the
College of Denturists of Ontario (CDO)
. In addition the program is currently accredited by
Accreditation (EQual) Canada
.
Utilizing the denturism model of care, students will learn to:
assess a patient's health history and oral health conditions
design a treatment plan
take impressions
complete procedures to fabricate the construction of removable partial or full dentures
Students will also provide services related to:
denture repairs
relines
removable oral devices
In addition, students will learn techniques in the fabrication of implant overdentures through simulation.
The program consists of a challenging curriculum, including
academic
,
clinical and laboratory skills
. Emphasis is placed on interprofessional education whereby students learn to function within a collaborative oral health-care team. Students are to assume responsibility for ensuring the client base required to participate in the clinical component of the program.
Graduates of this program are eligible to apply to take the
CDO
provincial qualifying examination.
(NOTE: Additional fees apply.) Successful completion of the examination is one of the requirements to be registered to practice as a denturist in the province by the CDO. Visit the
CDO
for further information about the registration process in Ontario.
Your Field Education Options
This three-year program offers valuable field experience that includes both on-site and off-site opportunities.
During the first year, students will spend time developing comprehensive lab skills that they will draw upon for the remainder of the program and throughout their future careers.
In the second year, students will build upon that foundation as they start working directly with patients, under the supervision of regulated oral health-care professionals, at our nearly 40,000 square foot, state-of-the-art
WAVE Dental Clinic
.
In the final year, students will continue to develop their skills by treating a broad range of clients who have complex oral health-care needs. Students can expect this work to be located both at our on-site
WAVE Dental Clinic
and off-site with a field partner.
PLEASE NOTE:
Clinical hours include early mornings that can extend into the evening. Students are responsible for finding their own field experience opportunities and are required to get pre-approval of the placement site from program faculty.
Interested in this program but need more competitive marks? Consider enrolling in the
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Advanced Diplomas and Degrees (A108) program
.
This program will help you develop new and strengthen existing skills in math, biology, chemistry, physics, and communication.
NOTE: While successful graduates of the (A108) program will be eligible to apply to this advanced diploma, it does not guarantee entry into this program.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program are eligible to apply to take the
College of Denturists of Ontario
provincial qualifying examination.
Successful completion of the examination is one of the requirements to be registered to practice as a denturist in the province by the CDO. Visit
CDO
for details about the registration process in Ontario.
Denturists are members of a self-regulated health-care profession.
Denturists practice in various settings, including:
private practice
community health settings
hospitals
teaching institutions
research
innovation facilities
the dental industry
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
DENT 1025
Complete Dentures Laboratory Practice I
DENT 1040
Complete Dentures Laboratory Theory I
DENT 1052
Dental Anatomy
DENT 1165
Dental Materials for the Denturist
BIOL 1008
Human Anatomy and Physiology I
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication
or
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
ANAT 1038
Head and Neck Anatomy
DENT 1027
Complete Dentures Laboratory Practice II
DENT 1041
Complete Dentures Laboratory Theory II
DENT 1105
Infection Prevention and Control
DENT 1106
Partial Dentures Theory and Lab I
BIOL 1011
Human Anatomy and Physiology II
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts (if necessary)
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
DENT 2007
Practice/Partial Dentures II
DENT 2013
Radiographic Interpretation
DENT 2015
Complete Dentures Clinical Theory I (full-year course)
DENT 2052
Clinical Practice I (full-year course)
DENT 2054
Communication and Cultural Competency
HIST 1003
Periodontology, Histology and Embryology
NUTR 1112
Nutrition
PATH 1019
Pathophysiology and Pharmacology I
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
DENT 2015
Complete Dentures Clinical Theory I (full-year course)
DENT 2052
Clinical Practice I (full-year course)
DENT 2053
Introduction to Digital Dentures
PATH 1004
Oral Pathology I
PATH 1020
Pathophysiology and Pharmacology II
DENT 2055
Gerontology For The Denturist
DENT 2056
Advanced Partial Denture Theory
ISHU 1305
Indigenous Studies
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
DENT 2038
Oral Pathology II
DENT 3004
Clinical Practice II (full-year course)
DENT 3020
Removable Implant Prosthodontics for the Denturist I
DENT 3021
Removable Prosthodontic Theory and Applications (full-year course)
DENT 3026
Community Placement (full-year course)
DENT 3023
Jurisprudence, Ethics and Professional Responsibilities
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
DENT 3004
Clinical Practice II (full-year course)
DENT 3006
Removable Implant Prosthodontics for the Denturist II
DENT 3021
Removable Prosthodontic Theory and Applications (full-year course)
DENT 3026
Community Placement (full-year course)
DENT 3040
Managing a Denturist Practice
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Practise in a professional, competent and ethical manner within the defined scope of practice and consistent with current regulations and standards of practice.
Assess and evaluate patients’ oral health status using determinants of health and risk analysis to identify denturism needs, support treatment decisions and provide appropriate referrals to other health care professionals as required.
Design, implement and evaluate a range of primary, interceptive, therapeutic, preventative and ongoing oral health-care services to meet the unique needs of patients.
Design, fabricate, insert and maintain a variety of dental prostheses and oral devices.
Identify, select, implement and evaluate quality assurance standards and protocols that contribute to a safe and effective working environment.
Establish and maintain professional and interprofessional relationships that contribute to patient care, safety and positive health-care outcomes within the scope of practice of denturists.
Facilitate the development of specific oral health attitudes, knowledge, skills and behaviours in patients by selecting and utilizing principles of teaching and learning.
Develop and present a model for a denturist practice that addresses relevant business principles, current legislation and standards of practice.
Develop ongoing reflective professional development strategies and plans related to realistic career goals in the profession.
Integrate theory, principles, concepts and relevant research into competent denturism practice.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$20,158.00 * †
International Tuition
$36,030.00 ** †
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of the program starting in the Fall of
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in the Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
†
There will be additional costs to the program in each year of study, including textbooks, appropriate laboratory/clinical attire, sundries and personal protective equipment. There is a minimal fee for some equipment on loan to the student during the academic year.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U) – A grade of 70 per cent or higher is required
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U) – a grade of 60 per cent or higher is required
grade 11 biology (C or U) or grade 12 (U) – a grade of 70 per cent or higher is required.
grade 11 chemistry or physics (U) or grade 12 chemistry or physics (C or U) - A grade of 60 per cent or higher is required*
Please note: The manual dexterity test is no longer required for this program.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature Students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, math or biology, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
or
math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
International student applicants please note that you must be a Canadian citizen or have permanent status to work as a denturist in Ontario. Please visit the
College of Denturists of Ontario
for more information regarding the qualifying examination and Certificates of Registration.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS FOR S101
Pre-placement Health Form
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet all the mandatory pre-placement health requirements for the program. It may take up to four months to complete all the requirements.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
For further details and to download the mandatory pre-placement health form, go to the
pre-placement website
Police Vulnerable Sector Check (must be valid annually)
In compliance with the requirements of our onsite clinic and our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a Police Vulnerable Sector Check completed, and this check must be renewed annually before entering into field or clinical placement.
The police vulnerable sector check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months.
This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered "vulnerable persons" under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for "individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s)."
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Police Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a "clear" Police Vulnerable Sector Check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a "not clear" status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the police record check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
pre-placement website
Covid-19 vaccination is highly recommended for oral health care workers and those working with vulnerable populations. Hospitals, long term care facilities and some community agencies continue to require COVID-19 vaccines for placements.
Students who are not vaccinated may not be able to attend external clinical or field placements. As a result, this may pose a risk of meeting the requirements for program completion.
The onsite WAVE (Wellness, Applied Learning, Visionary, Education) dental clinic will not require vaccination but is highly recommended. Use of PPE will be required in all onsite clinics.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Contact
sdhprograms@georgebrown.ca
for information about the Denturism program.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Dental Technology (S100)
Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) (S113)
Hearing Instrument Specialist (S117)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.