Design Management Program (Postgraduate) (G401)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Design Management
Code:
G401
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$12,287.00 *
International Tuition:
$22,415.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Design
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Design Management Internship
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Suspended
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Suspended
Suspended
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Graphic Design (G102)
Interactive Media Management (Postgraduate) (G412)
Marketing Management – Digital Media (Postgraduate) (B433)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The postgraduate Design Management program prepares you for a career managing design strategically. This program builds the skills needed to lead a multidisciplinary design team to develop products and services based on strategic business objectives. The program also teaches the business skills necessary to manage a consultancy or corporate design division.
Full Description
This postgraduate program in
Design Management
builds the skills needed to lead a multidisciplinary design team. You will learn how to develop design strategies for products and services based on business objectives. This program teaches practical tools and interpersonal facilitative skills, as well as the business knowledge required to manage a consultancy or corporate design division.
Who should take this program:
Design professionals with a global perspective who want to become active partners in helping firms develop and grow through expanded participation in strategic management.
Designers looking to enhance their career opportunities in supervisory or management positions.
Designers seeking to integrate strategic design into the workplace.
Designers with an entrepreneurial spirit looking to start their own company.
Courses in design process and strategy, project management, finance, team management, design research, contracts, business planning, communications and intellectual property protection complement a major studio course featuring real-world design projects. The courses cover the essential elements of a business strategy and how design contributes to the definition and realization of the strategy.
Your Field Education Options
A mandatory Design Management Internship (DESN1031) course is taken in semester 2. An external field placement role is not guaranteed in this course; students who are not placed externally will engage in a Work Integrated Project. The work term is a total of 120 hours, part-time, over an 8-week period. The Design Management Internship provides students with exposure to a Design Manager in a Canadian workplace environment.
Learn more about
Experiential Learning at the School of Design
including how to apply, important dates, workflow, and PLAR eligibility.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates will go on to careers managing design in the corporate sector, in a design consultancy or in their own business.
Educational Pathways
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
DESN 1022
Design Strategy
DESN 1023
Managing Innovation and Creativity
DESN 1024
Managing Design Projects
DESN 1027
Business Design
DESN 1028
Strategic Design Research and Development
COMM 1152
Design Business Communications
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
DESN 1021
Design Team Leadership
DESN 1025
Case Studies and Applications
DESN 1029
Major Design Project
DESN 1031
Design Management Internship
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Manage multidisciplinary design groups using practical working models of management systems.
Analyze evolving market needs to identify design strategies required for the development of new products and services.
Plan, implement and control project plans that are flexible and reflect the evolutionary environment of the design process.
Enhance leadership skills, management skills and design expertise through the development of personal professional development strategies and plans.
Establish working relationships with clients, customers and designers which maintain and strengthen their loyalty to their organization, as well as recognize design discipline protocols.
Develop and implement business strategies to recruit clients and new business opportunities.
Design and deliver sales presentations persuasively and accurately in oral, written, graphic and digital form.
Formulate and present comprehensive business plans for design projects.
Develop design strategies based on perceived value, competitive pressures and corporate objectives.
Evaluate results of design activities using criteria relating to application of best practices, costs and profits.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$12,287.00 *
International Tuition
$22,415.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials (non-refundable), student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
**Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Diploma or Bachelor's Degree, or demonstrated competence through related work experience (resume required)
Online Interview
Questionnaire & Portfolio (Link for Questionnaire and Portfolio will be provided when you reach that part of the application process)
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission. In addition, applicants who are accepted based solely on their work experience will be required to provide proof of English proficiency at the college level, and may be required to write the George Brown College English admission assessment.
Please visit the
English Proficiency
page for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
Apply to
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Design
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2137
Email:
design@georgebrown.ca
Design Management program co-ordinator: Toni Allen
Toni.Allen@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is part of our
School of Design
, located at our
Waterfront Campus
, at
3 Lower Jarvis St.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
School of Design Building
The School of Design resides in a new 103,000-square-foot facility in the Daniels Waterfront – City of the Arts development. This state-of-the-art building supports academic programs and industry projects with features such as:
virtual and augmented reality lab
usability and testing lab
Future Ways of Living lab
peer tutor lab
digital sandbox
incubators
prototyping and workshop spaces
design and innovation showcase spaces
Come and have your questions answered, learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom at one of our
information sessions
. You can also
book a campus tour
.
Explore related programs:
Graphic Design (G102)
Interactive Media Management (Postgraduate) (G412)
Marketing Management – Digital Media (Postgraduate) (B433)
“My journey at the School of Design, George Brown College was filled with creative decisions. The course provided me with many opportunity areas in Design Strategy, developing Creative Design Briefs, managing Multidisciplinary Design Teams and Collaboration… This course has helped me develop design management traits with versatility and resilience.
Design Management makes us believe in the value and power of collaboration and flexibility when we talk about creative disciplines. I now find my inspiration through dynamic team synergies. I believe in learning from and designing for experiences. It is all about Creative Commitment.
I am grateful to have been taught by such inspiring faculty members at the School of Design. I am also thankful for the Best Major Project Award for my research insights related to collaboration between industry and academia. Thank you for imparting me with the analytical business knowledge required to integrate strategic design into the workplace.”
Divleen Narula
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.