Digital Design – Game Design Program (Postgraduate) (G405)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Digital Design – Game Design
Code:
G405
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$15,070.00 *
International Tuition:
$32,078.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Design
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field placement available with portfolio approval.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Game – Programming (T163)
Graphic Design (G102)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Video games have become one of the leading forms of artistic expression in the twenty-first century. The Digital Design – Game Design one-year graduate certificate is a rigorous program of study that focuses on the principles and techniques of video game design and production required to break into the industry.
Full Description
The
Digital Design – Game Design
program develops the production and design abilities of students in management scenarios through courses in design documentation, milestone and pipeline scheduling, game design theory and psychology. Taught by faculty with industry experience and mentored by local game industry leaders, students will learn how to design and develop games, not only for the entertainment market but also for serious gaming applications in health, education, construction, marketing and other sectors.
You will have the unique opportunity to develop commercial quality games in a simulated video game studio environment, at times working with industry partners, game artists and programmers.
It is anticipated that as a graduate of this program, you will find employment in the game industry. Prior to graduation, you will have assembled a portfolio/demo of your creative work demonstrating your ability in game design and highlighting your chosen area of specialization.
Your Field Education Options
Students with approved portfolios are eligible for non-mandatory external field placements in semester 3.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates may go on to careers designing and managing design in the game and digital media sector or in their own business. Graduates of this program will have acquired the necessary skills to be employed as:
game designers
creative directors
level designers
producers
project managers
Educational Pathways
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
DESN 1101
Game Design Theory I
DESN 1140
Narrative Design I
DESN 1141
Game Psychology I
DESN 1143
Advanced Level Design I
DESN 1145
Game Management I
DESN 1147
Design Documentation
DESN 1122
Game Production Thesis I
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
DESN 1111
Game Design Theory II
DESN 1101
DESN 1149
Narrative Design II
DESN 1140
DESN 1142
Game Psychology II
DESN 1141
DESN 1144
Advanced Level Design II
DESN 1143
DESN 1146
Game Management II
DESN 1145
DESN 1148
Game Business
DESN 1147
DESN 1123
Game Production Thesis II
DESN 1122
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
DESN 1072
Game Experiential Project
DESN 1088
Studio Entrepreneurship
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Design environment and characters using the principles of game design.
Read, analyze and create game design documents for effective game creation and management.
Create environments, objects and characters for integration within a video game.
Import game assets and levels into game engines to create appropriate high-end 3D game applications or engines.
Produce a 3D game using appropriate tools and game management techniques.
Create and produce digital components, games and documentation using a variety of computer platforms.
Prepare a variety of industry standard documents and prototypes in a skilled manner and demonstrate professional presentation and organizational skills.
Develop and present a working game design document for a marketable game.
Use an existing game engine to create a prototype game.
Evaluate different types of games and platforms and select the appropriate ones for a particular game strategy.
Present the game design prototype and document using innovative techniques as well as digital, verbal and written skills.
Manage the design and production process of a game prototype.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$15,070.00 *
International Tuition
$32,078.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials (non-refundable), student service and ancillary fees for the
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the three semesters of the program starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
college diploma or bachelor's degree, or demonstrated competence through related work experience (resumé required)
online interview*
application questionnaire*
portfolio* (digital portfolio accepted)
resumé*
* Qualified applicants will be invited to complete the application questionnaire and submit a portfolio and resumé electronically. Details on these supplementary requirements will be communicated at a later date to qualified applicants, as part of the review process. Qualified applicants may also be invited for an interview.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission. In addition, applicants who are considered for admission to the program based solely on their work experience will be required to provide proof of English proficiency at the college level, and may be required to write the George Brown College English admission assessment.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
Apply to
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Design
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 3129
Email:
game@georgebrown.ca
Game Development Program Co-ordinator: Jean-Paul Amore, ext. 3427 or
jamore@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is part of our
School of Design
, located at our
Waterfront Campus
, at
3 Lower Jarvis St.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
School of Design Building
The School of Design resides in a new 103,000-square-foot facility in the Daniels Waterfront – City of the Arts development. This state-of-the-art building supports academic programs and industry projects with features such as:
virtual and augmented reality lab
usability and testing lab
Future Ways of Living lab
peer tutor lab
digital sandbox
incubators
prototyping and workshop spaces
design and innovation showcase spaces
Come and have your questions answered, learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom at one of our
information sessions
. You can also
book a campus tour
.
Explore related programs:
Game – Programming (T163)
Graphic Design (G102)
Watch the video to see some of the incredible work created by students of the Digital Design – Game Design program.
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.