Early Childhood Education Program (C100)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Early Childhood Education
Code:
C100
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
Duration (2 years (4 semesters, September start) or 16 months continuous with summer classes (January, May start)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,988.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,660.00 **
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Early Childhood
Location:
George Brown College at Toronto Metropolitan University Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Placement
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3, 4: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Open
Closed
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Early Childhood Education (Consecutive Diploma/Degree) (C118)
Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) (C130)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing graduates to work as Early Childhood Educators for more than 20 years.
Program Overview
This Early Childhood Education program is currently offering a $2,000 tuition grant to domestic students starting in September 2023 and January 2024*.
*This opportunity is funded in partnership with the
City of Toronto
,
the Region of Durham
,
the Region of Peel
, the Province of Ontario, and the Government of Canada under the new Canada-Ontario Early Childhood Workforce Agreement, which provides one-time federal funding to support the retention and recruitment of a high-quality child care and early years workforce.
Early Childhood Education is a two-year diploma program that uses rotating blocks of theory and practice to give you the skills you need to work with children from six weeks to 12 years of age in a variety of settings.
Full Description
This Early Childhood Education program is currently offering a $2,000 tuition grant to domestic students starting in September 2023 and January 2024.*
George Brown College's Early Childhood Education (C100)
is a two-year diploma program that will teach you how to support children as they grow.
You will study the holistic development of a variety of age groups, including:
infants (from six weeks)
toddlers
preschoolers
school-aged children (to 12 years)
You will learn how to plan and implement programs that support children’s learning, and will have an opportunity to engage with families and the broader community.
We have structured this program
to alternate between in-class learning and field placement. This method of teaching helps you develop confidence in your skills as you learn to apply key concepts from the classroom to a real-world setting. Employers value this approach because it makes our graduates ready to work as early childhood educators on day one.
ACCELERATED OPTION (16 consecutive months)
For students who are eager to enter the field of Early Childhood Education and are able to study without any significant breaks, we offer an accelerated stream that runs for 16 consecutive months (four continuous semesters). For more details visit our
Early Childhood Education (Accelerated) (C160) program
.
FAST-TRACK – DIRECT ENTRY (10 MONTHS)
You may qualify for the fast-track program if you have a diploma or degree in a related field. For details visit
Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) (C130) program.
*This opportunity is funded in partnership with the
City of Toronto
,
the Region of Durham
,
the Region of Peel
, the Province of Ontario, and the Government of Canada under the new Canada-Ontario Early Childhood Workforce Agreement, which provides one-time federal funding to support the retention and recruitment of a high-quality child care and early years workforce.
Your Field Education Options
Students in George Brown's Early Childhood Education program will complete a seven-week field placement in each semester of the program. During this time, students have the opportunity to work with children of different age groups in a variety of settings.
Field placement provides a continuum of experience that gives students the opportunity to integrate and apply theory to practice.
To support student learning outcomes and ensure you have access to facilities that model the best practices we consider essential, we operate Ontario's largest network of college-run lab school child care centres that serve over 1100 children and their families each year. These
12 child care centres,
located across the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), will expose you to the kinds of environments where you will eventually work and provide valuable services to the families and communities that they serve.
PLEASE NOTE:
Some of our field placement partners may require students to show proof of full vaccination. As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
Please visit this page for the latest updates on COVID-19.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this Early Childhood Education program may find employment in:
child care centres
early years centres
full-day kindergarten
parent resource centres
pediatric playrooms
special education settings
integrated kindergartens
therapeutic nursery programs
in-home care
Industry
Successful completion of this program will make you eligible for entrance to Ontario's
College of Early Childhood Educators
as a Registered Early Childhood Educator.
Graduates of this Early Childhood Education program will:
learn to design curriculum for child-centred, play-based learning
support children’s learning and development by responding to their unique needs and interests
build caring relationships with children, families and communities
create safe, healthy and inclusive early-learning environments
Educational Pathways
Students who complete the Early Childhood Education program with a GPA of 2.5 or higher may apply to complete the bridge courses for entry into the third year of George Brown's
Honours Bachelor of Early Childhood Leadership (Degree Completion) program
.
For information on future study options, see
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
ECE 1000
Professional Development Workshop 1
ECE 1075
Foundations of ECE
ECE 1069
Health, Safety and Nutrition
ECE 1070
Interpersonal Communication
ECE 1076
Observation, Planning and Evaluation
ECE 2045
Applied Curriculum
PSY 1075
Infant and Child Development
ECE 1024
Field Practice I
ECE 1181
Integrated Seminar I
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
ECE 1069
Health, Safety and Nutrition
GSSC 1064
Introduction to Sociology
ECE 2045
Applied Curriculum
PSY 1075
Infant and Child Development
ECE 1089
Observation, Planning and Evaluation
ECE 1026
Field Practice II
ECE 1182
Integrated Seminar II
ECE 1075
Foundations of ECE
ECE 1070
Interpersonal Communication
ECE 1095
Anti-racism in the Early Years
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
ECE 2048
Policy, Advocacy and Legislation
ECE 2049
Inclusion In Early Childhood
ECE 2050
Working with Families
ECE 1080
Professional Development Workshop 2
ECE 2053
Curriculum Theory
ECE 2056
Creative Curriculum
ECE 2014
Field Practice III
ECE 1183
Integrated Seminar III
ECE 2061
Social Policy in the Early Years
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
ECE 2048
Policy, Advocacy and Legislation
ECE 2050
Working with Families
ECE 2053
Curriculum Theory
ECE 2057
Current Issues
ECE 2017
Field Practice IV
ECE 1184
Integrated Seminar IV
ECE 2049
Inclusion in Early Childhood
GNED
General Education Elective
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 Introduction to College Communication before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Create learning contexts to enable, build and maintain caring, responsive relationships in partnerships with children, families and communities that value and respect social, cultural and linguistic diversity including Indigenous peoples' world views and Francophone identity.
Co-create, facilitate and reflect upon inquiry and play-based early years and child care programs and pedagogical approaches to support children's learning, holistic development and well-being following children's capabilities, interests, ideas and experiences.
Co-design and maintain inclusive early-learning environments to value and support equitable, accessible and meaningful learning opportunities for all children, their families and communities in a range of early years and child care settings.
Collaborate with children, families, colleagues, agencies and community partners to create, maintain, evaluate and promote safe and healthy early-learning environments to support independence, reasonable risk-taking and healthy development and well-being.
Use observation strategies to identify children's strengths and challenges and to ascertain when children and families might benefit from additional support or community resources.
Use professional communication in interactions with children, families, colleagues, employers, the regulatory body, government authorities and children's service agencies to meet legal and ethical standards of the early years sector.
Act in accordance with relevant legislation, regulations, College of Early Childhood Educators Code of Ethics and Standards of Practice, agency policies and procedures and principles of evidence-informed practice and reflect upon their impact on one's own role in early years and child care settings.
Identify, report and document when a child is in a situation of perceived risk for, or actual neglect or abuse, in accordance with legislation, the College of Early Childhood Educators Code of Ethics and Standards of Practice, policies and procedures.
Create and engage in partnerships with families, communities, colleagues, interdisciplinary professionals, authorities and child service agencies to advocate for quality early years and child care programs and services.
Engage in reflective practice and continuous professional learning in accordance with principles of lifelong learning, evidence-informed practices in the early years sector and requirements of the College of Early Childhood Educators.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,988.00 *
International Tuition
$17,660.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U) PLUS any additional (3) grade 12 C, U, M or grade 11 C, U or M credits***
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
*** grade 11 English (ENG3C) cannot be used toward meeting one of the additional 3 credits 12 C, U, M or grade 11 C, U or M credits
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Field placement is a mandatory and complex component of the program. Should accommodation issues arise, an Accessible Learning Consultant may be called upon to assist the applicant in determining whether she/he can meet the requirements necessary for safe caregiving for young children.
In compliance with requests from our student placement partners and requirements from Public Health and Ontario legislation, all students in this program must have completed the following prior to beginning field placement:
standard First Aid with CPR level C course
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
medical clearance
Students who are unable to provide completed field clearance documents may be unable to complete their field placement and, therefore, be unable to complete the program.
For more information on the ECE Field Placement requirements, please email
ece@georgebrown.ca.
Public Health recommends that people working with young children and other vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Early Childhood
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2310
Email:
ece@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 9 a.m. – 5 p.m.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Early Childhood Education (Consecutive Diploma/Degree) (C118)
Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) (C130)
To learn about the George Brown College student experience in the Early Childhood Education (C100) diploma program, watch this short testimonial.
Kevin Kelo (Student, Early Childhood Education)
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.