Early Childhood Education Program (Fast-Track) (C130)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Early Childhood Education
Code:
C130
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
10 months plus completion of a two-week orientation course
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,986.00* †
International Tuition:
$17,033.00* †
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Early Childhood
Location:
George Brown College at Toronto Metropolitan University Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Placement
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 3: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 4: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Early Childhood Education (C100)
Early Childhood Education (Consecutive Diploma/Degree) (C118)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
George Brown College has been preparing graduates to work as Early Childhood Educators for more than 20 years.
Program Overview
This Early Childhood Education program is currently offering a $2,000 tuition grant to domestic students starting in September 2023.*
*This opportunity is funded in partnership with the
City of Toronto
,
the Region of Durham
,
the Region of Peel
, the Province of Ontario, and the Government of Canada under the new Canada-Ontario Early Childhood Workforce Agreement, which provides one-time federal funding to support the retention and recruitment of a high-quality child care and early years workforce.
George Brown College's Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) (C130)
program is designed for graduates with a diploma or degree in a related field. Students in this program will learn how to design curriculum for child-centred, play-based learning and will develop skills to respond to each child's unique needs and interests as they grow and develop. Students will learn to work with infants, toddlers, preschool and school-aged children in a variety of early childhood education settings.
Full Description
This Early Childhood Education program is currently offering a $2,000 tuition grant to domestic students starting in September 2023.*
George Brown College's Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) (C130) program is designed for graduates with a diploma or degree in a related field.
In this Early Childhood Education (ECE) (Fast-Track) diploma program, you will learn how to support children as they grow. You’ll study the physical, cognitive, social and emotional development stages of infants (from six weeks), toddlers, preschoolers and school-aged children (to 12 years) and will learn to recognize key behaviours associated with each developmental stage.
You'll learn to design curriculum for child-centred, play-based learning in a variety of early childhood educational settings and will develop skills to respond to each child's unique needs and interests as they grow and develop.
We approach teaching and learning in this ECE program by alternating blocks of classroom theory with field practice. Regularly incorporating theoretical knowledge with hands-on experience, helps students bring theory to life solidifying what they are learning in the classroom. Employers value this approach because it prepares our graduates to work as early childhood educators on day one.
PLEASE NOTE:
some of our clinical or work placement partners may require students to show proof of full vaccination. As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
Please visit this page for the latest updates on COVID-19.
*This opportunity is funded in partnership with the
City of Toronto
,
the Region of Durham
,
the Region of Peel
, the Province of Ontario, and the Government of Canada under the new Canada-Ontario Early Childhood Workforce Agreement, which provides one-time federal funding to support the retention and recruitment of a high-quality child care and early years workforce.
Your Field Education Options
Students in this Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) program will complete a seven-week field placement in each semester. During this time, they will have the opportunity to work with children of different age groups in a variety of settings.
Field placement plays an important role in this ECE program as it provides a continuum of experience that gives students the opportunity to build on their learning as they develop skills and progress through the program.
To support student learning outcomes and ensure you have access to facilities that model the best practices we consider essential, we operate Ontario's largest network of college-run lab school child care centres that serve over 1,100 children and their families each year. These
12 child care centres,
located across the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), will expose you to the kinds of environments where you will eventually work and provide valuable services to the families and communities that they serve.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this ECE program may find employment in:
child care centres
early years centres
parent resource centres
pediatric playrooms
special education settings
integrated kindergartens
therapeutic nursery programs
in-home care
Industry
Successful completion of this ECE (Fast-Track) program will make you eligible for entrance to Ontario's
College of Early Childhood Educators
as a Registered Early Childhood Educator.
George Brown ECE graduates will:
Learn to design curriculum for child-centred, play-based learning.
Support children’s learning and development by responding to their unique needs and interests.
Build caring relationships with children, families and communities.
Create safe, healthy and inclusive early learning environments.
Educational Pathways
Students who complete George Brown's Early Childhood Education program with a GPA of 2.5 or higher may apply to complete the bridge courses for entry into the third year of our
Honours Bachelor of Early Childhood Leadership (Degree Completion) program
.
Your Early Childhood Education diploma will give you credit toward degree programs at other institutions.
For information on future study options, see
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
ECE 1069
Health, Safety & Nutrition
ECE 2048
Policy, Advocacy and Legislation
ECE 2049
Inclusion in Early Childhood
ECE 1080
Professional Development Workshop 2
ECE 2053
Curriculum Theory
ECE 2056
Creative Curriculum
ECE 2061
Social Policy in the Early Years
ECE 1183
Integrated Seminar III
ECE 2050
Working with Families
ECE 2014
Field Practice III
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
ECE 2048
Policy, Advocacy and Legislation
ECE 2049
Inclusion in Early Childhood
ECE 2050
Working with Families
ECE 2053
Curriculum Theory
ECE 2057
Current Issues
ECE 2017
Field Practice IV
ECE 1184
Integrated Seminar IV
GNED
General Education Elective
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Create learning contexts to enable, build and maintain caring, responsive relationships in partnerships with children, families and communities that value and respect social, cultural and linguistic diversity including Indigenous peoples' world views and Francophone identity.
Co-create, facilitate and reflect upon inquiry and play-based early years and child care programs and pedagogical approaches to support children's learning, holistic development and well-being following children's capabilities, interests, ideas and experiences.
Co-design and maintain inclusive early-learning environments to value and support equitable, accessible and meaningful learning opportunities for all children, their families and communities in a range of early years and child care settings.
Collaborate with children, families, colleagues, agencies and community partners to create, maintain, evaluate and promote safe and healthy early-learning environments to support independence, reasonable risk-taking and healthy development and well-being.
Use observation strategies to identify children's strengths and challenges and to ascertain when children and families might benefit from additional support or community resources.
Use professional communication in interactions with children, families, colleagues, employers, the regulatory body, government authorities and children's service agencies to meet legal and ethical standards of the early years sector.
Act in accordance with relevant legislation, regulations, College of Early Childhood Educators Code of Ethics and Standards of Practice, agency policies and procedures and principles of evidence-informed practice and reflect upon their impact on one's own role in early years and child care settings.
Identify, report and document when a child is in a situation of perceived risk for, or actual neglect or abuse, in accordance with legislation, the College of Early Childhood Educators Code of Ethics and Standards of Practice, policies and procedures.
Create and engage in partnerships with families, communities, colleagues, interdisciplinary professionals, authorities and child service agencies to advocate for quality early years and child care programs and services.
Engage in reflective practice and continuous professional learning in accordance with principles of lifelong learning, evidence-informed practices in the early years sector and requirements of the College of Early Childhood Educators.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,986.00* †
International Tuition
$17,033.00* †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
† In addition, students in C130 are required to take a preparatory course for which an extra fee will be charged (prior to semester 3).
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Degree or diploma in a related field.
OR
One year completed of an Early Childhood Education credential, plus experience working with children (resumé required).
All qualified applicants must also complete the following as part of the review process:
Online information session, during which you will be required to complete a digital questionnaire. Other arrangements will be made for those unable to attend the session.
questionnaire
interview
Successful completion of a two-week orientation course in June.
+There is a fee for the two-week orientation course. Applicants who fail the course will not be allowed to continue in the program.
Applicants must apply by August 1st, 2023, to be considered for this program.
Please note:
successful applicants must complete a two-week orientation course in June, and a final placement in May of the following year.
* Information sessions are by appointment only and invitations are sent to qualified applicants only.
English Language Proficiency
Domestic applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the College level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency page
for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Field placement is a mandatory and complex component of the program. Should accommodation issues arise, an Accessible Learning Consultant may be called upon to assist the applicant in determining whether she/he can meet the requirements necessary for safe caregiving for young children.
In compliance with requests from our student placement partners and requirements from Public Health and Ontario legislation, all students in this program must have completed the following prior to beginning field placement:
Standard First Aid with CPR level C course
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
medical clearance
Students who are unable to provide completed field clearance documents may be unable to complete their field placement and, therefore, be unable to complete the program.
For more information on the ECE Field Placement requirements, please email
ece@georgebrown.ca.
Public Health recommends that people working with young children and other vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Early Childhood
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2310
Email:
ece@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Early Childhood Education (C100)
Early Childhood Education (Consecutive Diploma/Degree) (C118)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.