Electric Vehicle (EV) Technician Program (T951)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Electric Vehicle (EV) Technician
Code:
T951
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Online
Duration:
32 weeks
Starting Months:
Open enrolment
Domestic Tuition:
$1,750.00*
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Online
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Continuous Open Enrollment
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Winter
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Spring
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The Electric Vehicle (EV) Technician training program is intended to address a global need for people who are skilled in diagnosing, servicing and repairing high voltage EVs and commercial charging stations.
Students in the EV Technician program receive both theoretical and laboratory instruction through a combination of multimedia learning resources and an electrical/electronics simulation software package (CircuitLogix Pro) to allow for the testing, validation, and understanding of electrical and electronic circuits that are found in a typical EV.
The program will also be highly beneficial to Automotive Service Technicians who have a strong background in internal combustion engine (ICE) powered vehicles, but who lack the knowledge and skills in power electronics and data communication systems to safely perform service-related work on EVs and Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEVs). Additionally, this program is relevant to electricians who will be installing, servicing and maintaining residential and commercial EV charging stations.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS:
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Full Description
The Electric Vehicle (EV) Technician certificate program is divided into 14 courses, or modules, each consisting of about 10 sections, or major topics. The program is delivered in an asynchronous “on demand” format, which allows you to start and finish modules at your own pace.
The average completion time is 32 weeks, but there are no pre-set, scheduled completion times, which allows you to complete the course material at a rate that you are comfortable with. Each module has an online final exam. Course material for the program is delivered and supported by a combination of online resources including real-time tutorial support. The interactive curriculum uses text, video, 2D and 3D animations, photos, audio clips and interactive electrical/electronic simulations.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
The program is beneficial for:
Automotive Service Technicians who have a strong background in internal combustion engine (ICE) powered vehicles, but who lack the knowledge and skills in power electronics and data communication systems to safely perform service-related work on EVs and Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEVs).
Electricians who will be installing, servicing and maintaining residential and commercial EV charging stations.
Individuals interested in a career servicing, repairing, designing or selling EVs.
Courses
Required Courses
Code
Course Name
EVTC9000
Introduction to EVs
EVTC9001
Basic Electricity
EVTC9002
Direct Current Circuits
EVTC9003
Alternating Current Circuit
EVTC9004
Power Electronics
EVTC9005
Batteries and Fuel Cells
EVTC9006
Battery Charging Systems
EVTC9007
DC Motors and Controls
EVTC9008
AC Motors and Controls
EVTC9009
Powertrains
EVTC9010
Sensors and Actuators
EVTC9011
Communication and Control Systems
EVTC9012
Safety, Maintenance, and Repairs
EVTC9013
Autonomous Vehicles
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$1,750.00*
Additional Costs
THERE IS NO ADDITIONAL COST. STUDENTS CAN PAY TUITION IN FULL OR PAY-AS-YOU-LEARN OPTION AS BELOW.
Initial registration is $580 (includes all learning materials, laboratory simulation software and access to the Module 1 exam) and registration for each of the remaining 13 modules is $90/module. Students may register for one or more modules at any time. International applicants are charged the same fees but in U.S. dollars (US$580); the posted exchange rate in effect at the time of your registration will be used to determine the final fee in Canadian dollars. There is no refund on learning material.
*Amounts listed are the total of tuition and materials for the programs starting in fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in fall 2023 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
Grade 12 English (C or U)
Grade 11 math (M or U) or Grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older)
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Call us at 416-415-4726, or toll-free 1-888-553-5333.
E-mail
info@gbctechtraining.com
.
Check out the course details along with our interactive video tour at
evtechnician.com
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.