Electromechanical Engineering Technician Program (T146)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician
Code:
T146
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,366.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,915.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Available
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 3: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 4: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation (T171)
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This 2-year program is eligible for
a $40,000 scholarship.
*
*Domestic students only - see page for details.
This Electromechanical Engineering program will prepare you for the rapidly changing demands of the North American industrial environment. Today’s companies require employees with multidisciplinary expertise that combines electrical, mechanical and controls engineering skills, along with the installation, maintenance and operation of increasingly sophisticated and automated equipment.
Full Description
Robotics, controls and process automation are cornerstones of modern production facilities and automated systems. Our multidisciplined and hands-on approach to learning culminates in a capstone project in which students design and produce a complex, integrated, fully functional electromechanical system by applying their accumulated theoretical and practical knowledge.
Students complement their technical skills with a focus on the soft skills needed to establish a successful career and add value to any team. Students will learn from faculty who are experienced in both the workplace and the teaching environment.
The industry-relevant curriculum is delivered through hands-on learning in the college’s machine shops, electrical and industrial automation laboratories, process controls and robotics facilities, to ensure that graduates can move quickly and directly into the industry.
Note: If you enrol in the program in January, you are required to complete semester 2 in the summer (May to August) of the same year to continue into semester 3 in the fall.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Your Career
As technology continues to evolve at an unprecedented pace, graduates will be in high demand for their cross-disciplinary skills in all types of environments, including:
automation and process control
manufacturing and production
assembly and packaging
building and maintenance of automated systems
power generation and transportation
systems integration
technical sales
quality control and other related fields
Some of the college’s industry partners, who have led the development of this program, come from sectors as diverse as automotive manufacturing, tunnelling and drilling, consumer packaging (including canning, bottling and imaging), food and beverage production, urban transit, power generation, and industrial equipment production and maintenance.
Future Study Options
Other opportunities can be explored through the
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
EMNG 1001
Circuit Analysis
EMNG 1004
Metrology
MENG 1002
Engineering Drawing
MENG 1087
Machining Fundamentals
MENG 1088
Occupational Health and Safety
GSSC 1027
Personal Finance
MATH 1160
Mathematics for Engineering Technology 1
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
EMNG 1003
Engineering Physics
EMNG 1012
Introduction to Mechanical CAD
EMNG 1013
Electronic Devices
EMNG 1015
Motors & Controls
EMNG 1016
Electro-Pneumatics
MATH 1171
Mathematics for Engineering Technology 2
GSSC 1100
Small Business Plan and Operation
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
EMNG 2001
Introduction to PLC Systems
EMNG 2004
Digital Electronics
EMNG 2020
Sensors and Instrumentation
EMNG 2021
Automation Software Development
EMNG 2006
Operations Management & Quality Control
EMNG 2033
Mechanical and Electrical CAD
EMNG 2045
Introduction to Machining
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
EMNG 2015
Applied Project
EMNG 2023
Intermediate Machining
EMNG 2034
Embedded Systems & Interfacing
EMNG 2040
Workplace Preparedness & Technical Writing
EMNG 2041
Robotics
EMNG 3003
Network Fundamentals
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Fabricate and build electrical, electronic and mechanical components and assemblies in accordance with operating standards, job requirements and specifications.
Interpret and produce electrical, electronic and mechanical drawings and other related technical documents and graphics for a variety of stakeholders in compliance with industry standards.
Select and use a variety of troubleshooting techniques and equipment to assess, maintain and repair electromechanical circuits, equipment, processes, systems and subsystems.
Maintain and repair electrical, electronic and mechanical components, equipment and systems to ensure that they function according to specifications and to optimize production.
Support the design and production of mechanical components by assisting in the specification of manufacturing materials and processes.
Apply, analyze, build, install, commission and troubleshoot a variety of mechanical, electrical and electronic control systems, logic and digital circuits, passive AC and DC circuits, and active circuits.
Install and troubleshoot basic computer hardware and programming to support the electromechanical engineering environment.
Maintain and troubleshoot automated equipment including robotic systems.
Establish and maintain inventory, records, and documentation systems to meet organizational and industry standards and requirements
Select and purchase electromechanical equipment, components and systems that fulfill job requirements and functional specifications.
Assist in applying quality control and quality assurance program procedures to meet organizational standards and requirements.
Work in compliance with relevant industry standards, laws and regulations, codes, policies and procedures.
Develop strategies for ongoing personal and professional development to enhance work performance and to remain current in the field and responsive to emergent technologies and national and international standards.
Contribute as an individual and a member of an electromechanical engineering team to the effective completion of tasks and projects.
Support project management activities such as planning, implementation and evaluation of projects and monitoring of resources, timelines and expenditures as required.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,366.00 *
International Tuition
$17,915.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
Students are responsible for purchasing CSA standard safety shoes for their protection when working in the laboratories.
CSA safety glasses are provided, but students who wish to use prescription safety glasses will be responsible for purchasing those separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4365
Email:
engineeringtech@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room D305
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation (T171)
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.