English for Professional Success (EPS) Program (R902)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
English for Professional Success (EPS)
Code:
R902
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Part-time
Duration:
Must complete the program within three consecutive academic years.
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
Please see the Courses tab for fee details
International Tuition:
The same tuition fees apply to both domestic and international students.
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
English as a Second Language ESL
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Not Available
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Continuous Open Enrollment
Continuous Open Enrollment
Winter
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Continuous Open Enrollment
Spring
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Continuous Open Enrollment
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
George Brown College's English for Professional Success Certificate
will help you develop the skills you need to succeed in Canada's highly competitive and often challenging workplace. By further developing your verbal, listening, and written communication skills, this part-time program will help you build confidence in personal and professional cross-cultural linguistic interactions. Apply to this program if you are a non-native speaker with advanced-level English skills.
PLEASE NOTE: Classes for this certificate are delivered in person during evenings and weekends to accommodate working professionals.
Full Description
George Brown College's English for Professional Success Certificate
is a part-time program designed to help you develop the skills you need to succeed in Canada's highly competitive and often challenging workplace.
Apply to this program if you are interested in further developing your verbal, listening, and written communication English language skills for both personal and professional use. To complete this certificate, you must complete three core courses and your choice of two electives.
About the English for Professional Success Certificate Program:
part-time study with classes delivered during evenings and weekends
designed for non-native speakers with advanced-level English skills
for working professionals looking to build confidence with personal and professional cross-cultural communications
courses can be taken in the order of your personal preference
PLEASE NOTE:
Information related to courses, including length, dates, times, location, and delivery mode are subject to change without notice.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Courses
Required Courses
Core Courses
Code
Course Name
Course Fee
ESL 9081
Canadian Workplace Culture: Expectations and Communication Styles
343.00
ESL 9082
Business Communication for Professionals
329.00
ESL 9083
ESL Business Writing for Professionals
329.00
Electives
Code
Course Name
Course Fee
ESL 9070
Pronunciation and Fluency
316.00
ESL 9064
Listening and Persuasive Speech
316.00
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for one course in the program starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
Please see the Courses tab for fee details
International Tuition
The same tuition fees apply to both domestic and international students.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Apply to this program if you are interested in further developing your verbal, listening, and written communication English language skills for both personal and professional use.
As this is an advanced-level certificate, you must complete
ESL 9068 (ESL IIIB ADVANCED)
or have an equivalent English placement test result prior to taking the core courses in this certificate.
Prior to enrolling in any of the elective courses, you must complete the
ESL 9067 (ESL IIIA LOW ADVANCED)
or have the equivalent English placement test.
Special Requirements
You must achieve a grade of B (73%) or better to successfully complete each course.
To achieve this advanced-level certificate, you must complete three core courses and your choice of two electives.
Placement Test
If you are writing the level placement test for program entry, please visit
Continuing Education (part–time) ESL Program Placement Test Registration
to sign up for the test after you have registered for the program.
How to Apply
Domestic and International Students:
To apply for the program, please visit the Courses section and register directly in your respective course(s) by following the instructions provided.
International Students of R902 program:
You
DO NOT
need to apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance at 1-800-265-2002.
Call the
English for Academic Purposes
office at 416-415-5000, ext. 4826 or email
conedesl@georgebrown.ca
.
PLEASE NOTE:
Courses in this program are for continuing education purposes only. To earn credits toward a full-time George Brown program, we offer the English for Academic Purposes program:
Domestic Students – visit English for Academic Purposes Program (R105)
International Students – visit English for Academic Purposes Program (R115)
Visit Our Campus
Visit Our Campus
Take our
virtual tour
to see our state-of-the-art facilities in downtown Toronto.
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.