Fashion Management Program (F102)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Fashion Management
Code:
F102
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,447.00 * +
International Tuition:
$17,908.00 ** +
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Fashion & Jewellery
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Mandatory field education with in-class component and field experience of 280 hours.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 3: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 4: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Fashion Business Industry (F112)
Fashion Techniques and Design (F113)
International Fashion Management (Postgraduate Certificate) (F412)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
The Fashion Management program is the only academic program curriculum in Canada endorsed by the American Apparel and Footwear Association (AAFA).
Program Overview
The
Fashion Management
diploma program will prepare you to apply the tools of marketing and merchandising to maximize product success in the market. As a student in the Fashion Management program, you will have a deep understanding of textiles, manufacturing inputs and processes and movement in the supply chain, as well as management of the value, costing and quality of apparel. You will also gain relevant industry knowledge through field education experience after the first year of study, and through the unique opportunity to manage a retail store on campus.
Full Description
The
Fashion Management
program prepares you with essential knowledge and skills required to meet the Canadian fashion industry's core business needs. You will gain a deep understanding of textiles, manufacturing inputs and processes and movement in the supply chain, as well as management of the value, costing and quality of apparel. You will also be able to apply the tools of marketing and merchandising to maximize product success in the market. This program is designed to meet the needs of today's Canadian market, which has shifted to product development, niche markets and omni-channel retail.
The Fashion Management program is the only academic program curriculum in Canada identified by the American Apparel and Footwear Association (AAFA) as an
affiliate school
. Benefits to you include an up-to-date curriculum, connection with the industry and access to industry research materials exclusively available to members.
The concepts of developing, sourcing and marketing a product from initial idea to retail sale are introduced. You will test and problem-solve for quality assurance; develop buying, merchandising and marketing plans; examine logistics processes and work as a team to manage a retail store.
The structure of this program gives you flexibility in the choice of a career path. You will also gain relevant industry knowledge through field education experience after the first year of study. The field education experience may be in fashion buying, production, distribution, retailing, wholesale or a related marketing area. Students have the opportunity to network with potential employers at our FashionWorks industry event.
Note:
Students starting in January will have an alternate order of courses, and will not graduate until their field education component has been completed. January intake students will complete semester two from May to August, and continue into semester three in September of the same academic year.
The
School of Fashion and Jewellery
offers a diverse, hands-on
learning environment
, including many extracurricular activities for students.
Program Requirements
The Fashion Management program requires students to have access to a personal laptop or desktop computer, and reliable Internet access for synchronous classes.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
For more than 45 years, this program has generated a varied, adaptable workforce for the apparel industry. Graduates have been hired by apparel manufacturers, designers, wholesalers, importers and major and independent retailers.
Graduates are employed in positions
leading to careers
such as:
product developer/co-ordinator
buyer
production manager
quality control manager
costing analyst
purchasing agent
merchandiser
store manager
retail planning and allocation
sourcing manager
logistics/distribution manager
social media
Educational Pathways
Graduates with a minimum 2.7 gpa may be eligible for admission to George Brown postgraduate programs, including
International Fashion Management (F412)
.
Students who successfully complete this program with an established minimum grade may be eligible for articulation to other programs or for course exemptions at other institutions in Canada, internationally and at a number of universities in the United States whose apparel programs are recognized and endorsed by the American Apparel and Footwear Association (AAFA). The Fashion Management program is the only fashion program in Canada endorsed by the
AAFA
.
For further information, see
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner 2023-2024
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
FASH 1008
Visual Merchandising
FASH 1082
World of Fashion
FASH1083
Introduction to Sewing and Drafting
FASH 1107
Fabric Science: Textiles
FASH 1036
Basic Accounting Principles
STS 1044
Strategies for Student Success
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
FASH 1031
Fabric Analysis
FASH 1045
Field Education Experience*
FASH1145
Retail Excellence
FASH 2003
Fashion Merchandising and Buying
FASH 2004
Apparel Marketing
COMP 1174
Adobe Illustrator
GNED
General Education Elective
*For September start, Field Education Experience is May to August. For January start, Field Education Experience is July to December.
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
FASH 1052
Apparel Manufacturing
FASH 1068
Apparel Buying Simulation
FASH 2008
Apparel Marketing – Advanced
FASH 2073
Sales Management
FASH
Program Elective (choose one)
GNED
General Education Elective
BUS 1008
Business Lab – College Creations
or
FASH1139
Fundamentals of Logistics
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
FASH 1066
Apparel Sourcing
FASH 2007
Product Development and Costing
MGMT 2009
Fundamentals of Management
QC 1003
Quality Assurance and Applications
FASH
Program Elective (choose one)†
GNED
General Education Elective
BUS 1008
Business Lab – College Creations
or
FASH 1139
Fundamentals of Logistics
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Electives
†Program elective choices vary from semester to semester. These are examples of some of the program elective courses that may be offered:
Code
Course Name
FASH1252
Fashion Business Communication
FASH2082
Fashion Journalism – An Introduction
FASH1054
Portfolio Development
FASH1084
Fashion Promotion and Advertising
FASH1089
Social Media for Fashion Marketing
FASH2048
Textile Laboratory
FASH2076
Fashion Project and Event Planning
FASH2077
Textile Surface Design
FASH2078
Knitwear Product Development
FASH1229
Costume Production for Film and Theatre
FASH1187
Colour and Trend Forecasting
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Identify textile materials, assess their suitability and compatibility and select for end use.
Use basic accounting concepts and financial analysis in order to interpret reports and make business decisions.
Make optimal sourcing decisions based on research and analysis of domestic and global sources.
Use merchandising concepts and retail math to develop merchandise, assortment and buying plans.
Communicate visually by using appropriate tools and practices to create product development packages, sales materials and merchandising displays.
Apply the principles of logistics and supply chain management to operate a successful fashion business.
Use effective interpersonal and team skills to enhance leadership, management and sales expertise in a fashion business environment.
Evaluate product by applying the principles of quality control to meet appropriate standards.
Explain the organization and operation of the Canadian fashion industry, its role within the global economy and identify the forces that affect it.
Distinguish the processes and systems used in garment manufacturing to make production decisions.
Apply the product development process by preparing visual materials, technical specifications and cost analysis for a product(s) aimed at a specific target market.
Develop, communicate and apply a marketing plan by combining marketing research, strategies and tactics.
Analyze ethics, corporate social responsibility and sustainability principles to develop best practices in the fashion industry.
Develop professional goals through industry exposure with an emphasis on lifelong learning and personal growth.
Fashion Management Information Session
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,447.00 * +
International Tuition
$17,908.00 ** +
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
+ Books and additional supplies are
not
included in tuition fees and must be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
Basic computer literacy and skill level in Word and Excel are recommended.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note: Students who start the program in January (Winter term) will be required to attend classes during the summer months (May to August)
George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Please note:
Students who start the program in January (winter term) will be required to attend classes during the summer months (May to August)​.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Fashion and Jewellery
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4840
Email:
fashionandjewellery@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Fashion and Jewellery
and classes take place at our
Casa Loma Campus
, located at
160 Kendal Ave.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an info session
.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Fashion Business Industry (F112)
Fashion Techniques and Design (F113)
International Fashion Management (Postgraduate Certificate) (F412)
"George Brown College in Toronto (Canada) gave me a great education through its excellent program and enthusiastic professors and staff! After 2 years and 28 Fashion Management courses I am confident to join the fashion community and build my career in Toronto.
As an international student I was worried about my communication skills and lack of a network here because of language barriers and cultural differences, but the staff helped me in finding internships and they taught me how to write a resume and succeed in interviews (which I think is essential for everyone!). The program was practical and helpful in developing my career plan.
In addition, my professors and peers are amazing people. I learned a lot from them about cooperating in teams and producing Threads, our year-end event, and fashion shows. I had many opportunities to meet and work with designers, friends, and other creatives in Toronto.
Moreover, we have strong alumni ties which are super-beneficial for us to find better opportunities and help the next generation to grow together. I LOVE MY CLASS OF 2022!!!! "
Rias Wang
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.