Fashion Business Industry Program (F112)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Fashion Business Industry
Code:
F112
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,427.00 * +
International Tuition:
$17,882.00 ** +
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Fashion & Jewellery
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Students with a minimum 2.7 GPA may apply for a Field Education elective in second year (subject to availability).
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 3: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2, 4: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Fashion Management (F102)
Fashion Techniques and Design (F113)
International Fashion Management (Postgraduate Certificate) (F412)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This two-year diploma program is designed to allow you to develop a working knowledge of business management and technical skills necessary for small- to medium-sized businesses in the apparel fashion industry. The entrepreneurial aspect of this program guides you through the process of developing a comprehensive business plan, which is essential to start a new business or manage an existing business. You will gain an understanding of textiles, garment construction, quality criteria and apparel merchandising. You will also learn to apply marketing, accounting, financial and other business concepts necessary for the fashion business industry.
Full Description
The
Fashion Business Industry
two-year diploma program at George Brown College's
School of Fashion and Jewellery
in Toronto gives students an introduction to all aspects of the fashion industry, from product knowledge to marketing and small-business management.
The small- to medium-sized business enterprise is a flourishing sector of the fashion industry and represents a great opportunity for entry into the fashion world. Smaller companies require employees who possess a variety of management skills to manage a business from the start-up stage to more developed business models. As a student in this program, you will be prepared for the roles and develop skills essential for the operation of a successful small fashion business. The entrepreneurial aspect of this program guides you through the process of developing a comprehensive business plan, which is essential to start a new business or manage an existing business.
You will gain an understanding of textiles, garment construction, quality criteria and apparel merchandising. You will also learn to apply marketing, accounting, financial and other business concepts necessary for the decision-making you will encounter in your future career.
Program Requirements
The Fashion Business Industry program requires students to have access to a personal laptop or desktop computer, and reliable Internet access for synchronous classes.
Your Field Education Options
Students with a grade point average of 2.7 or higher may apply to take the Field Education elective in second year.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program will have acquired the necessary skills to be employed in various fashion industry positions in preparation for starting their own small fashion business.
Graduates are employed in positions leading to careers such as:
entrepreneur
store manager
production planner
operations manager
sales analyst
visual merchandise co-ordinator
marketing assistant
pre-production co-ordinator
transportation co-ordinator
warehouse assistant
wholesale sales agent
customer service associate
Some of our past graduates have gone on to establish their own successful businesses. Business opportunities include: small manufacturing facility, fashion contracting firm, retail operation, wholesaler, sales agent, specialty boutique and third-party logistics providers.
Industry
The majority of fashion businesses are small- to medium-sized enterprises. The apparel industry is a major employment sector in Canada.
Educational Pathways
Graduates who successfully complete this program with an established minimum grade may be eligible for admission to
George Brown College postgraduate programs
, including
International Fashion Management
(F412).
Students who successfully complete this program with a grade point average of 3.5 or higher may be eligible for admission to fashion programs at other post-secondary institutions.
For further information, see the
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner 2023-2024
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
FASH 1008
Visual Merchandising
FASH 1082
World of Fashion
FASH 1083
Introduction to Sewing and Drafting
FASH 1107
Fabric Science: Textiles
FASH 1144
Economics
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
FASH 1031
Fabric Analysis
FASH 1036
Basic Accounting Principles
FASH 1128
Apparel Construction Techniques 1
FASH 2003
Fashion Merchandising and Buying
FASH 2004
Apparel Marketing
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
FASH 1142
Apparel Drafting Techniques
FASH 2008
Apparel Marketing – Advanced
FASH 2069
Business Planning for Entrepreneur
FASH 2070
Logistics and Costing for Fashion Industries
COMP 1174
Adobe Illustrator
FASH 1143
Apparel Construction Technique
QC1003
Quality Assurance and Applications
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
FASH 1091
History of Costume
FASH 2071
Financial Management for the Entrepreneur
FASH 2072
Business Ethics
FASH 2080
Retail Operations
GNED
General Education Elective
FASH
Program Elective (choose one)*
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Electives
*Program elective choices vary from semester to semester. These are examples of some of the program elective courses that may be offered:
Code
Course Name
FASH 1252
Fashion Business Communication
FASH 2082
Fashion Journalism – An Introduction
FASH 1084
Fashion Advertising and Promotion
FASH 2048
Textile Laboratory
FASH 2050
Draping
FASH 2054
Portfolio Development
FASH 2076
Fashion Project and Event Planning
FASH 2077
Textile Surface Design
FASH 2078
Knitwear Product Development
FASH 1089
Social Media for Fashion Marketing
FASH 1090
Independent Study – Field Education
FASH 1229
Costume Production for Film and Theatre
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Use basic apparel drafting and construction skills and industrial sewing machines to complete apparel products.
Use standard fashion industry computer software for business and for design development.
Manage daily operations, resources, visual merchandising and customer relationships to ensure profitability in a retail enterprise.
Develop a business and finance plan for a small apparel enterprise that reflects awareness of market conditions, resources required and cash flow.
Apply appropriate buying, merchandising and accounting practices to support small business operations in the fashion industry.
Apply supply chain management and logistics to operate a successful fashion business.
Develop, communicate and implement a marketing plan by combining marketing research, strategies and tactics.
Analyze economic, fashion and industry trends to make business decisions in small- and medium-sized apparel enterprises.
Evaluate products by applying quality control processes to meet appropriate standards.
Identify textile materials, asses their suitability and compatibility and select accordingly for end use.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,427.00 * +
International Tuition
$17,882.00 ** +
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
+ Books and additional supplies are not included in tuition fees and must be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
Basic computer literacy and skill level in Word and Excel are recommended.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Fashion and Jewellery
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4840
Email:
fashionandjewellery@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Fashion and Jewellery
and classes take place at our
Casa Loma Campus
, located at
160 Kendal Ave.
, Toronto, ON, Canada.
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an info session
.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Fashion Management (F102)
Fashion Techniques and Design (F113)
International Fashion Management (Postgraduate Certificate) (F412)
"The fashion business industry program applied a multidisciplinary approach that prepared students for independence in the fashion industry. It was through this combined approach that students learned the intricacies of business and fashion in order to effectively manage, design and implement their ideas in the field. The professors and community are enthusiastic and encourage growth within the fashion and jewelry arts programs. Through a combination of awards, contests, research projects, and events, every student is provided ample opportunity to demonstrate their individuality within the supportive community at GBC."
Merve Zeybekoglu
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.