Fashion TECH Program (F117)
Apply Now:
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Fashion TECH
Code:
F117
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Part-time
Duration:
3 semesters (10 weeks, 15 weeks, 15 weeks)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
Tuition funded for eligible applicants
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Fashion & Jewellery
Location:
Fashion Exchange, 63 Regent Park Blvd.
Experiential Learning:
280 Hours Work-Integrated Learning Field Placement
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
As a student in the Fashion TECH program, you will acquire the digital and hands-on training to enter skilled employment as machine operators in the digital fashion technology fields of knitting, embroidery, dye sublimation or laser cutting.
Full Description
Fashion TECH is a unique program designed to provide the digital and hands-on skills necessary to enter digital fashion technology fields. As a student of this program, you will acquire specific skills needed for machine operation in
embroidery, knitting, dye sublimation or laser cutting
. As the fashion industry continues to expand local production and adopt advanced technologies, there are increasing opportunities for employment in these fields.
The Fashion TECH program is offered through our School of Fashion and Jewellery and classes take place at our Fashion Exchange (FX), located at
63 Regent Park Blvd
. FX is more than a learning lab; it's also a production facility readily accessible to local designers and fashion producers where you will be immersed in day-to-day apparel manufacturing operations and will have the opportunity to network with industry members.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates from the program have found employment as Machine Operators in apparel production, specialty shops or maker labs. Sectors where laser cutting, embroidery, dye sublimation or knitting are applied include:
apparel such as sportswear, uniforms, bridal or fashion lines
home textiles and furnishings
art and design projects
signage and graphic materials
premium incentive branding
retail outlets that offer personalization services
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner 2023-2024
Semester 1
Course Code
Courses
FASH 1182
Digital Literacy for Fashion Careers
FASH 1183
Fashion Orientation
FASH 1184
Introduction to Fashion Textile Technology Knitting
FASH 1185
Introduction to Fashion Textile Technology Laser Cutting
FASH 1186
Introduction to Fashion Textile Technology Embroidery
FASH 1188
Introduction to Fashion Textile Technology Dye Sublimation Printing
FASH 1189
Fashion Technology Exploration
FASH 1193
Foundational Skills for Success
Semester 2
Course Code
Courses
FASH 1254*
Fashion Technology Specialization Preparation
FASH 1255
Field Preparation and Career Planning
FASH 1256
Workplace Regulations
FASH 1257
Workplace First Aid. St John's Ambulance
Semester 3
Course Code
Courses
FASH 1258
Work Placement
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate will have reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Use software to program equipment specializations (one of the following technology types: knitting, dye sublimation, laser cutting or embroidery) including file creation and review and correct input files.
Use machine operating controls for normal equipment operations.
Perform safe equipment operation with use of relevant safeguards, PPE and proper health and safety procedures. Identify possible hazards and properly respond to emergency situations.
Set up equipment to prepare for use.
Perform regular machine maintenance and cleaning.
Implement a work order for the specialization equipment.
Conduct machine output inspection and address quality control issues with equipment operation.
Effectively communicate and share information with the supervisor and team members.
Describe Ontario Labour Code and workplace regulations and apply them to workplace situations.
Meet the requirements to obtain first aid certification from recognized provider of Standard First Aid CPR and AED training.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
Tuition funded for eligible applicants
Additional Costs
Tuition funded for eligible applicants.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Due to the nature of this program and the evolving admissions requirements, please contact us for the most up-to-date information:
Jeanine Larmour
Student Success/Industry Liaison/Instructor
jlarmour@georgebrown.ca
Rosa Fracassa
Director, Fashion Exchange
rfracass@georgebrown.ca
How to Apply
The intake process involves the following steps:
Online application completion.
Pre-screening process.
Interview.
Computer assessment.
English assessment.
Contact Us
Fashion Exchange, 63 Regent Park Blvd., Toronto
Jeanine Larmour
jlarmour@georgebrown.ca
416-415-5000, ext. 4591
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.