Fashion Techniques and Design Program (F113)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Fashion Techniques and Design
Code:
F113
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,596.00 * +
International Tuition:
$18,322.00 ** +
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Fashion & Jewellery
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Students with a minimum 2.7 GPA may apply for a Field Education elective in second year (subject to availability).
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 3: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 4: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Fashion Management (F102)
Fashion Business Industry (F112)
International Fashion Management (Postgraduate Certificate) (F412)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Fashion Techniques and Design
program prepares you for careers in garment-manufacturing design rooms. This is a women's wear program that focuses on pattern drafting and sewing skills. You will use industrial machines and learn the essentials of technical illustration, pattern making, pattern grading and clothing construction. Additional core subjects include textiles, technical specifications and history of costume.
Full Description
The
Fashion Techniques and Design
program prepares you for careers in garment-manufacturing design rooms. This is a women's wear program that simulates, as closely as possible, the industry's standards, practices and facilities. You will use industrial machines and learn the essentials of technical illustration, pattern making, pattern grading and clothing construction. Additional core subjects include textiles, technical specifications and the history of costume. Program electives allow you to select specific related subject areas, such as fashion show development, portfolio development, draping, lingerie, men's pattern drafting, leather apparel, knitwear and bridal and evening wear. Computer skills in Adobe Illustrator, pattern drafting and pattern grading are included as core and elective courses and are continually upgraded to meet industry needs. This program covers introductory methods to more advanced concepts in the second year.
An annual fashion show and portfolio event highlight successful student projects. You have the opportunity to network with industry, participate in numerous competitions, work on applied research projects, volunteer and attend industry events.
Note
: This program requires extensive sewing; manual dexterity and good vision are assets. Both sewing experience and access to a sewing machine outside of the campus facilities are expected.  Students who begin the program in January will study through the spring/summer semester and continue into the September academic year.  For January students, the program is condensed to 1.5 years by studying through the spring/summer period.
At the
School of Fashion and Jewellery
, the
learning environment
is as diverse as our students and there are many extracurricular activities to take advantage of.
Program Requirements
The Fashion Techniques and Design program requires students to have access to a personal laptop or desktop computer, printer and reliable Internet for classes.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
This program is ideal for individuals with a love of fashion and a desire to be involved in the industry at various stages of creating a fashion line, from initial design concept to final product.
Graduates typically become members of a team in roles that might include:
pattern drafting or construction
drafting and construction specifications
product development
Graduates have had successful careers as:
assistant designers
technical designers
patternmakers
samplemakers
assistant apparel technicians
graders
marker makers
technical illustrators
product developers
stylists
design, trend and style consultants
social media
Workplaces range from small design studios to large manufacturing companies. In the last 40 years, graduates have also developed into entrepreneurs in design, sewing and fashion service bureaus.
Educational Pathways
Graduates of this program with a minimum program GPA of 2.7 are eligible for admission to George Brown postgraduate programs.
Students who successfully complete this program with a grade point average of 3.5 or higher may be eligible for admission into fashion programs at other post-secondary institutions.
For further information, see
Transfer Guide.
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner 2023-2024
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
FASH 1033
Technical Illustration
FASH 1082
World of Fashion
FASH 1107
Fabric Science: Textiles
FASH 1115
Fundamental Pattern Drafting
FASH 1117
Construction I – Theory and Practice
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
FASH 1031
Fabric Analysis
FASH 1061
Torso Drafting
FASH 1122
Construction II: Theory and Practice
FASH 1153
Technical Specifications and Development
FASH 1159
Design and Colour for Fashion
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
FASH 2038
Advanced Torso Drafting
FASH 2056
Construction III – Theory and Practice
FASH 2064
Pattern Grading and Marker Making
FASH
Program Elective (choose one)*
COMP 1174
Adobe Illustrator
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
FASH 1091
History of Costume
FASH 2046
Construction IV – Theory and Practice
FASH 2051
Advanced Drafting
FASH
Program Elective (choose one)*
GNED
General Education Elective
** Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Electives
*Program elective choices vary from semester to semester. These are examples of some of the program elective courses that may be offered:
Code
Course Name
FASH 2082
Fashion Journalism – An Introduction
FASH 1252
Fashion Business Communication
FASH 1002
P.D.S. (Pattern Drafting System)
FASH 1008
Visual Merchandising
FASH 1084
Fashion Promotion and Advertising
FASH 1125
Lingerie
FASH 1132
Block Making
FASH 1134
Collection Development
FASH 1135
Independent Study
FASH 2050
Draping
FASH 2053
Men's Pattern Drafting
FASH 2054
Portfolio Development
FASH 2065
Bridal and Evening Wear
FASH 2076
Fashion Project and Event Planning
FASH 2078
Knitwear Product Development
FASH 2077
Surface Textile Design
FASH 2081
Introduction to Apparel Fit
FASH 1090
Independent Study – Field Education
FASH 1229
Costume Production for Film and Theatre
Detailed course outlines
Articulation Agreement
Graduates may also be eligible for further study in other academic institutions.
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Draft and grade flat patterns for mass garment production.
Select and use production methods and techniques that best suit the fabric, pattern and design of the garments.
Select garment materials that are compatible with the overall apparel design and meet the user's needs.
Operate industrial sewing, pressing, grading and other technical equipment safely to professional standards.
Apply technical and computing skills to fashion design and production.
Research and analyze factors, trends, stylistic features and art principles that influence current fashions.
Prepare visual and portfolio materials, product specifications and cost analysis for a product, project and/or market.
Design, prototype and produce original patterns and garments using mass production industrial methods and equipment.
Fashion Techniques & Design Information Session
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,596.00 * +
International Tuition
$18,322.00 ** +
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in
Fall 2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
+ Books and additional supplies are
not
included in tuition fees and must be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
This program requires extensive sewing and drafting. It is strongly recommended that applicants have sewing experience.
Students who enter the program with intermediate experience in working with commercial patterns and construction of garments have a better chance to succeed in program demands. Both sewing ability and access to a sewing machine outside of the campus facilities are expected.
Basic computer literacy and skill level in Word and Excel are recommended.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note: Students who start the program in January (winter term) will be required to attend classes during the summer months (May to August)
George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Fashion and Jewellery
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4840
Email:
fashionandjewellery@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Fashion and Jewellery
and classes take place at our
Casa Loma Campus
, located at
160 Kendal Ave.
, Toronto, ON, Canada.
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an info session
.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Fashion Management (F102)
Fashion Business Industry (F112)
International Fashion Management (Postgraduate Certificate) (F412)
"I am thankful for all the learning opportunities I have been given at FX and School of Fashion and Jewellery, George Brown College. I have been lucky to have such amazing teachers and mentors. Ula Zukowska was my Industrial Power Sewing instructor at FX and later taught me construction sewing at George Brown College in the Fashion Techniques and Design Program. Ula hired me upon graduating from the Fashion Techniques program and I am deeply grateful. I would also like to acknowledge Berta Pavlov who is the instructor of the PAD software certificate program who gave me the skills to become a technical designer in fashion. I am fortunate enough to be able to work at FX and be surrounded by experts and masters in the fashion industry and be able to help the team create such amazing new designs and products."
Valentin Amon
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.