Food and Beverage Management – Restaurant Management Program (H132)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Food and Beverage Management – Restaurant Management
Code:
H132
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,459.00 * †
International Tuition:
$18,364.00 ** †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Hospitality & Tourism Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing, and that is why we have incorporated work-integrated learning opportunities into all CHCA programs.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3, 4: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Culinary Management (H100)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Immerse yourself in a community of hospitality-focused individuals while exploring your passion for the food and beverage sector. Develop your business acumen in the five key pillars of a successful Food and Restaurant Management professional: marketing, sales, human resources management, operations management and finance. Enhance your learning experience by marrying theoretical knowledge with real-world practical experience via our state-of-the-art simulation labs, world-renowned Chefs’ House restaurant and vibrant industry networking events. This is the place to launch your career in the restaurant management world.
Full Description
GBC’s Food and Beverage Management program, you will learn about the exciting and diverse Food and Beverage industry with courses in wine, mixology, entrepreneurship and strategic restaurant management. Your first year in this program will provide you with foundational industry knowledge, by learning and working alongside your peers across all sectors in our School of Hospitality and Tourism Management, referred to as a “common first year approach.” In your first year, you will gain knowledge in the areas of hotels, event planning, tourism and food and beverages through a range of practical and theoretical courses.
During your second year of study, you will apply your understanding of theory through unique learning techniques and invaluable practical experience. You will have the opportunity to:
take over The Chefs’ House
, our state-of-the-art restaurant and learning facility, where you will manage all aspects of operations including designing and selling tickets, working with industry partners, performing cost analysis and designing the food and beverage menu in partnership with our culinary students.
embark on an educational, virtual adventure via our
Restaurant Simulation
, where you will revitalize and transform a failing restaurant into a profitable enterprise by using decision-making, management and financial-planning skills.
Your Field Education Options
As part of your fourth semester, you will complete a 14-week industry externship with your choice of a nationwide or international placement. This opportunity will enhance your knowledge with real-world experience and help you start building your network of contacts. Completing the Food and Beverage Management program will make you the kind of multitalented graduate the local and international food and beverage industry is seeking in today’s competitive environment.
Graduates gain the skills required to be progressive leaders within the industry, enriching the experience of food and beverage guests. You will receive industry certifications in food safety, responsible alcohol beverage service, WSET and first aid (CPR). To better hone your international food and beverage management skills you have the option of participating in an exclusive Experiential Study Tour.
This program allows you to switch into any of our hospitality and tourism management programs by your second year, should your hospitality area of interest change. As well, we know life can be full of unexpected events; should you not be able to complete your final year of study, our common first year model makes you eligible to graduate with a one-year certificate in Hospitality Services (H101).
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
A world of local and international opportunities awaits you when you graduate. Food and Beverage Management professionals may establish their career paths in restaurants, breweries, wineries, resorts, hotels, clubs and convention centres – to name but a few. Toronto alone has more than 9,000 restaurants and 230 hotels. While many of our graduates will own and/or operate successful food and restaurant operations, other students will choose to specialize in areas such as marketing, sales, human resources, finance and consulting.
Educational Pathways
Earn a diploma and a bachelor’s degree. Qualified graduates of our Food and Beverage – Restaurant Management program may be eligible to enter the
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality)
degree program at George Brown College as an advanced standing student in September or January. You may also choose to start in the spring bridging semester from May to August, continuing into the degree program in September. This educational path requires a minimum grade point average of 2.7 to qualify. Talk to a program coordinator about articulation options.
For further information, see
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOST1085
Principles of Hospitality and Tourism Management
HOST1171
Global Accommodation Industry
HOST1172
Introduction to Wines and Beverages
HOST1070
Introduction to Catering
HOST1146
Leading, Following and Speaking with Confidence
COMM2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH 1250
Introduction to Management Numeracy with Excel Applications
HOST 1068
Smart Serve (online certificate)
HOSF 1145
Sanitation (online certificate)
HOSF 1146
Emergency First Aid and Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HOST1174
Remarkable Restaurant Service – An Introduction to the Industry
HOST1043
Special Events Planning & Delivery
HOST1173
Hospitality Marketing and Social Media
HOST1160
Career Preparation
HOST1175
Global Tourism Geography*
HRM1015
Human Resources Management*
LAW1017
Introduction to Hospitality Law*
ACCT1048
Hospitality Accounting*
GSCI1035
Science of Sustainability
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
ACCT2017
Managerial Accounting
HOST1150
Food & Beverage Cost Control
HOST1244
Strategic Restaurant Management
HOST1037
Dining Room Operations
HOST1011
Mixology
HOST1199
Entrepreneurship
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
HOST 2067
Restaurant Management Simulation (online)
HOST 2132
Industry Externship
GNED
General Education Elective
* seven-week courses
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Plan, prepare and present quality food and beverage for a variety of hospitality environments.
Deliver accomplished service of food and beverage for a hospitality enterprise.
Support an industry and workplace service culture by adopting a positive attitude and professional decorum, accommodating diverse and special needs and contributing as a team member.
Deliver customer service and solutions that anticipate, meet and/or exceed individual expectations, as well as organizational expectations, standards and objectives.
Use marketing concepts, market research, social networks, sales and revenue management strategies, relationship management skills and product knowledge to promote and sell hospitality services, products and guest experiences.
Apply business and revenue models as well as basic accounting, budgeting, financial and administration skills to support the effective management and operation of a variety of organizations delivering hospitality services and products.
Comply with relevant organization and workplace systems, processes, policies, standards, legal obligations and regulations, and apply risk management principles, to support and maintain efficient, safe, secure, accessible and healthy hospitality operations.
Use appropriate technologies to enhance the quality and delivery of hospitality services, products and guest experiences and to measure the effectiveness of hospitality operations.
Keep current with hospitality trends and issues, and interdependent relationships in the broader tourism industry sectors to improve work performance and guide career development.
Use leadership, teamwork, conflict and relationship management skills and tools, as well as knowledge of organizational behaviour, labour relations, employment standards and human rights to contribute to a positive work environment.
Respond to issues and dilemmas arising in the delivery of hospitality services, products and guest experiences by using and promoting ethical behaviour and best practices of corporate social responsibility and environmental sustainability.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,459.00 * †
International Tuition
$18,364.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
†
Additional Cost
Textbooks, manuals, etc. – $575 (fees are subject to change).
Included in material fees is a uniform; black pants, grey Oxford shirt and a bib apron, as well as a professional bar kit.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
Grade 12 English (C or U)
Applicants may also qualify for admission through completion of the
Hospitality Services program (H101)
. There are a limited number of seats available and admission is not guaranteed.
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens, including nuts, dairy, and shellfish, are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to Halal and Kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
Food and Beverage Management (H132)
For general School of Hospitality and Tourism Management–related inquiries, please contact
chcastudentsupport@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Culinary Management (H100)
"Food and Beverage Management is a fantastic program that culminates with the ability to test all of your skills and knowledge through the externship placement and simulation project. The externship placement is a chance to apply all of the practical knowledge we have been given in a hands-on way, as well as an opportunity to build relationships with leading industry professionals. Working hand in hand with the externship placement is the simulation project, which really gives you the ability to bring in your own creativity and hone your decision-making skills in an industry-specific way. The amazing faculty at George Brown College has created a finale to a program that sets you up for wonderful new beginnings in your career!"
Berkley Bradley
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.