Game – Programming Program (Online) (T193)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Game – Programming
Code:
T193
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,931.00 *
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Computer Technology
Location:
Online
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 3: Online
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 4: Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Not Available
Winter
2024
Closed
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Game – Programming (T163)
Game – Art (G119)
Computer Programming and Analysis (T177)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Whether it’s online or console, cellphone or PC-based, the game industry in Canada is large and growing rapidly. Game developers and publishers in the Greater Toronto Area range from small specialized units to midsized companies to Microsoft, Nintendo and other industry leaders. Computer programmers are the fundamental resource for companies that develop, produce, distribute and market computer-based games. In fact, our industry advisers tell us it is the technical skills that are most in demand – a demand that this George Brown program is focused on meeting.
This program is fully online, including lectures, exams, and class projects. This program allows you to:
Study online from the comfort of home while joining other students across Canada in live, instructor-led classes.
Access the knowledge and expertise of faculty members who are embedded in Toronto’s rapidly growing tech industry.
Develop professional skills in a format convenient to you and your busy weekday commitments.
PLEASE NOTE: This is an online only program, open to domestic students. Regular in-person delivery and International eligibility is available; please see
Game – Programming (T163)
for more details.
Full Description
Whether it’s online or console, cellphone or PC-based, the game industry in Canada is large and growing rapidly. Game developers and publishers in the Greater Toronto Area range from small specialized units to midsized companies to Microsoft, Nintendo and other industry leaders.
Computer and game programmers are the fundamental resource for companies that develop, produce, distribute and market computer-based games. In fact, our industry advisors tell us it is the technical skills that are most in demand – a demand that this George Brown program is focused on meeting.
As a student in this three-year
Game – Programming
online
advanced diploma program, you will learn the technical skills needed to be successful in the job market by learning “the language of gaming” (C and C++), as well as artificial intelligence, 3D graphics and much more.
The added advantage of this program is that you will also be taught by George Brown’s School of Design faculty throughout the program, working closely with design students to create games, explore all aspects of the game industry and learn to work in teams, just as you would in the industry. Classes take place at George Brown – Waterfront Campus, evening courses may be required.
Note:
Students who start the program in January (winter term) will be required to attend classes during the summer months (May to August).
Technology Requirements
This program requires students to have access to a personal computer with the following specifications:
8 GB RAM minimum (16 GB recommended)
256 GB SSD Hard Drive (500+ GB is optimal)
Approx. 100 GBs of hard disk space for required software
Quad-core i7 2.5GHz or better
Video card (4GB RAM recommended, supports OpenGL 3.2+ and DirectX 11/12)
Webcam
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Our graduates will be able to work in many areas of the digital game industry, including:
software or hardware development
publisher
ISP and game portal development and maintenance
website development
distribution middleware and tool provider
production servicer
content/IP owner
Industry
"Canada's video game industry is recognized as a global powerhouse for game development and has played a significant role in shifting what was once a 'niche industry' into a blockbuster industry and driver of innovation. In 2015, the industry contributed more than $3 billion to the Canadian economy and provided 20,400 full-time equivalent (FTE) jobs across the country, representing an increase of 31 percent and 24 percent respectively since 2013.
"Industry growth both globally and in Canada has been explosive and is expected to continue into the future.​ Canada’s video game industry crosses the country with 472 active studios that develop, publish, and distribute video games. The sector is mainly concentrated in the provinces of Quebec (29.4 percent), British Columbia (27.1 percent), and Ontario (22.9 percent)." – Entertainment Software Association of Canada
Educational Pathways
Graduates of Game – Programming have the opportunity to apply to the BSc (Honours) Computer Games Design program at the University of Gloucestershire, beginning in level 6. For more information about this program, visit their
Computer Games Design
page.
Courses
Required Courses
PRINTABLE CURRICULUM PLANNER 2023-2024
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
GAME 1001
Introduction to Programming
GAME 1007
Game Fundamentals I
GAME 1005
Game Production I
GSSC 1027
Personal Finance
MATH 1180
Math for Game Development
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
GAME 1011
Advanced Programming
GAME 1017
Game Fundamentals II
GAME 3001
Artificial Intelligence
GAME 1014
Game Production II
MATH 1107
Linear Algebra and Geometry
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
GAME 2020
Game Production III
GAME 2001
Data Structures & Algorithms
GAME 2005
Game Physics
GAME 2012
3D Graphics Programming
GAME 2013
Game Engines I
GNED
General Education Elective (select one)
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
GAME 2030
Game Production IV
GAME 2031
Advanced Topics in Programming Languages
GAME 3111
Advanced Graphics Programming
GAME 3002
Physics Engines
GAME 2023
Game Engines II
COMP 2148
Professional Workplace Competencies
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course name
GAME 3020
Game Production V
GAME 2014
Mobile Game Development I
GAME 3003
Console Game Development I
GAME 3110
Multiplayer Systems
GAME 3023
Game Engines III
GAME 3121
Game Engine Development I
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course name
GAME 3030
Game Production VI
GAME 3004
Mobile Game Development II
GAME 3011
Game Portfolio Development
GAME 3015
Game Engine Development II
GAME 3033
Game Engines IV
GAME 3112
Console Game Development II
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
georgebrown.ca/assessment
for more information.
General Education Electives
Electives
ALTERNATIVE STUDY OPTIONS
Students looking to focus more on the art/asset development aspect of game development may be more interested in our
Game – Art advanced diploma program (G119)
, which is centred in the George Brown School of Design. Even though several courses are co-delivered in both programs, we encourage you to consider which program most closely suits your goals prior to making a final decision.
In-person delivery of Game – Programming program is available; see
Game – Programming (T163)
for more information.
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Analyze the differences in game genres in order to develop games that meet the needs of specific markets.
Analyze the history of video games to compare various approaches to game development.
Support the development of games by identifying and relating concepts from a range of industry roles – programming, design and art.
Contribute as an individual and a member of a game development team to the effective completion of a game development project.
Develop strategies for ongoing personal and professional development to enhance work performance in the games industry.
Perform all work in compliance with relevant statutes, regulations, legislation, industry standards and codes of ethics.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,931.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
Attending a program information session is highly recommended
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
georgebrown.ca/transferguide
for more information.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
School of Computer Technology
Location: 3 Lower Jarvis St., Room 260
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4287 or 3129
Email:
computertechnology@georgebrown.ca
or
game@georgebrown.ca
Office hours: Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Program Co-ordinator: Alexander Richard
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4232
Email:
arichard6@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Visit Our Campus
Classes in the Game – Programming program take place at our
Casa Loma
and
St. James
Campuses. Sign up for an
information session
or
campus tour
to learn more about George Brown College and the program. You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Game – Programming (T163)
Game – Art (G119)
Computer Programming and Analysis (T177)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.