Gemmology Program (F105)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Gemmology
Code:
F105
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,916.00 * +
International Tuition:
$18,644.00 ** +
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Fashion & Jewellery
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Jewellery Arts (F114)
Jewellery Essentials (F111)
Jewellery Methods (F110)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This is the only full-time gemmology certificate program at an Ontario college.
Program Overview
The Gemmology program teaches you to analyze and classify a wide variety of gem materials, both natural and artificially created. The program focuses on analyzing chemical and physical characteristics of gem and gemlike materials, and identifying different gems. The gem materials are classified into categories according to their desirable characteristics, which eventually determine the value of the gems. To accomplish the identification and classification, you use a number of specially designed instruments such as microscopes, spectroscopes, refractometers, polariscopes and others.
Full Description
The
Gemmology
program teaches you to analyze and classify a wide variety of gem materials, both natural and artificially created. The program focuses on analyzing chemical and physical characteristics of gem and gemlike materials, and identifying different gems. The gem materials are classified into categories according to their desirable characteristics, which eventually determine the value of the gems. To accomplish the identification and classification, you use a number of specially designed instruments, such as microscopes, spectroscopes, refractometers and polariscopes, on real gem materials.
Visual acuity and accurate colour rendition are essential traits for success in gemmology.
Refractive Index liquid (RI liquid), which contains diiodomethane, is a commonly used chemical in gemmology practice. If you are pregnant, have certain medical conditions or are sensitive to RI liquid, please consult with your physician for advice before you attend this program, as you will be exposed to RI liquid in gemmology lab work.
Program Requirements
This program requires students to have access to a personal laptop or desktop computer, and reliable Internet access for synchronous classes.
Students will be provided with a list of textbooks required to purchase after registration.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program find employment in jewellery enterprises at manufacturing, wholesale and retail levels. With additional training and experience in the jewellery industry, some graduates become jewellery appraisers. Many graduates, with additional study, write the Canadian Gemmological Association professional exams and the British Gemmological Association exams to obtain internationally recognized professional designations.
Industry
The gemmology industry works in partnership in a number of sectors including:
retail trade
repair
wholesale
jewellery manufacturing
mining
appraisal
auction houses
Educational Pathways
Opportunities to receive transfer credits toward further study to attain a degree in Jewellery and Gemmology are available.
Some credits may be considered for transfer to other jewellery programs. Graduates with both jewellery and gemmology education have a significant advantage in the workplace.
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
JEWL 1005
Gemmology 1
JEWL 1072
Science for Gemmology
JEWL 1047
Jewellery as an Industry*
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
JEWL 1079
Gemmology 2
JEWL 1008
Diamond Grading
JEWL 1006
Jewellery Appraisal
JEWL 1083
History of Jewellery and Gemstones
*Course common with other GBC programs.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Identify a large number of gemstones and gem materials and distinguish them from synthetics and imitations.
Use, maintain and handle gemmological instruments and testing equipment competently and safely.
Grade gemstones for quality based on their cut, colour and other physical characteristics, chemical composition and possible place of origin.
Grade diamonds based on their cut, clarity, colour and carat weight.
Apply the basic skills of jewellery appraisal to assess market value.
Contextualize jewellery according to historical and stylistic qualities to assess provenance, materials and method of production.
Conduct ethical and secure business practices consistent with jewellery business standards.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,916.00 * +
International Tuition
$18,644.00 ** +
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in
Fall 2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
+ Books and additional supplies are not included in tuition fees and must be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
Basic computer literacy and skill level in Word and Excel are recommended.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Visual acuity and accurate colour rendition are essential traits for success in gemmology.
Chemical Safety Disclosure
The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recommends the use of good laboratory practices while using or being exposed to refractive index (RI) liquid, which contains diiodomethane. You will use RI liquid when using a refractometer, which you will come in contact with directly or indirectly in various courses. You may need to exercise special precautions if you are pregnant, if you have certain medical conditions and if you have sensitivity to, or are allergic to, this chemical. If you are unsure, contact your physician for advice.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Fashion and Jewellery
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4840
Email:
fashionandjewellery@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Our
Jewellery programs
are part of our
School of Fashion and Jewellery
and classes take place at our
Casa Loma Campus
, located at
160 Kendal Ave.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
On-campus information sessions
are available. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an info session
.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Jewellery Arts (F114)
Jewellery Essentials (F111)
Jewellery Methods (F110)
"As an older student, after having launched and sold a fintech start-up as well as having raised four daughters, I was looking to rekindle my lifetime passion for Jewellery, gemstones and artistic design. George Brown College and its Jewellery Arts program as well as its Gemmology program turned out to be the ideal place for the next step in my lifecycle. It gave me the necessary tools, the critical connections and the nurturing environment to create, experiment and grow. But best of all were the passionate and caring people I met over those wonderful years as a returning student."
Edna I. Milevsky
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.