General Arts and Science Program (Diploma) (R101)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
General Arts and Science
Code:
R101
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,786.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,503.00 **
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Liberal Arts & Sciences
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 3: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus; Semester 2, 4: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
General Arts and Science – One-Year (Certificate) (R104)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
George Brown College's General Arts and Science (R101)
is a two-year (four semesters) diploma program designed to help you strengthen your academic skills and refine your goals for further post-secondary studies. Articulation agreements with several universities enable pathways to a number of selected degree programs with advanced standing. This program includes a wide range of required courses within arts and humanities, social sciences and science, as well as a choice of two liberal studies elective courses to ensure breadth in thinking and analytical skills. Courses emphasize the development of skills in research, writing, oral communications and critical thinking, providing excellent preparation for work or further college or university studies.
Full Description
George Brown College's General Arts and Science (R101)
is a two-year (four semesters) diploma program that will help you develop the essential skills you need for advanced studies, including university transfer and professional specialization. This program includes a wide range of subjects within the arts and humanities, social sciences and science.
It emphasizes advanced skills in research and writing, oral communications and critical thinking, providing excellent preparation for work as well as for further vocational and university studies.
You will acquire knowledge and engage with ideas in a wide range of disciplines. Interdisciplinary approaches enable you to explore and relate relevant concepts and issues to individuals, the environment and the workplace.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Many students complete the two-year (four semesters) diploma program and continue on to other college and university programs with advanced standing if they meet the grade point average and admission requirements for those programs. Our curriculum helps students develop the academic background, skills and discipline required to succeed in those programs.
Many others prefer to enter the world of work directly from the program. An education in the liberal arts and sciences is valued in many workplaces. Our program helps students develop the advanced communication and critical thinking skills required in the world of work, particularly for careers that encourage on-the-job professional development.
Educational Pathways
Degree Pathway to The University of Toronto
George Brown College's General Arts and Science (R101) diploma program offers a pathway to university studies.
Graduates with a program GPA of 3.0 or higher may be eligible for admission to the Faculty of Arts and Science at the University of Toronto (U of T) with 6.0 transfer credits if specific criteria are met. Eligible students also have the opportunity to enrol in spring/summer course(s) at the U of T after successful completion of semester 2 and to earn additional course credits toward a degree.
For more information and to learn about program requirements, please contact the program co-ordinator, Maurizio Dodaro (
mdodaro@georgebrown.ca
).
Vocation-specific College Studies
Students who meet the grade point average (GPA) requirements, may be granted exemptions or advanced standing in other college programs depending on the length of study, grades achieved and admission requirements as outlined by the college and program of interest.
University transfer options
After two years of full-time study, students who meet the GPA requirements may be eligible for admission to many university liberal arts and humanities programs, usually with transfer credits equivalent to at least one year of university studies, depending on their grades, the university and the program's admission requirements.
Students must adhere to any program-specific and institutional requirements of the universities to which they apply. For details and to review the list of degree completion and professional credentials articulation agreements with other post-secondary institutions, please see the
General Arts and Science program page.
Other:
Graduates of this program may apply for entry into the Bachelor of Laws (LLB) program at the University of Sussex in the United Kingdom, and into George Brown’s degree programs in business, hospitality and technology. For specific requirements, see the
General Arts and Science program page.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts*
GSCI 1024
Environmental Science
HUMN 1111
Critical Thinking: A Reasoning Experience
MATH 1034
Mathematics for General Arts & Science
SSCI 1011
Learning and the Brain
HUMN 1035
Introduction to Media Studies
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
SSCI 1106
Introduction to Research
HUMN 1114
Reasoning and Rhetoric: Reading Between the Lines
GSSC 1055
Fundamental Themes in Geography
STS 1035
Exploring Career Options
MATH ELECTIVE (ONE REQUIRED)
Code
Course Name
GSSC 1027
Personal Finance
MATH 1094
Calculus
STAT 1014
Embracing Data: Mathematical Tools for Informed Decisions
SCIENCE ELECTIVE (ONE REQUIRED)
Code
Course Name
GSCI 1065
Human Biology
GSCI 1045
Nutrition
GSCI 1146
Plants and Society
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
HUMN 1029
Introduction to Philosophy I
HUMN 1032
Foundations of Canadian Culture
HUMN 1034
Introduction to Canadian Literature
SSCI 1012
Introduction to Psychology I
SSCI 1013
Introduction to Sociology I
Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
HUMN 1030
Introduction to Philosophy II
HUMN 1031
Canadian Studies
HUMN 1033
Critical Approaches to Literature
SSCI 1015
Introduction to Psychology II
SSCI 1014
Introduction to Sociology II
Liberal Studies Elective
* Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Articulation Agreement
The General Arts and Science (R101) two-year (four semesters) diploma program currently has articulation agreements with the following universities:
University of Toronto
University of Waterloo
Bishop's University
Athabasca University
Royal Roads University
Vancouver Island University
Buffalo State University
University of Sussex Law program
Students can transfer some credits earned in the R101 program and apply them toward a university degree as outlined in the specific articulation agreements. Students must adhere to program-specific and institutional requirements at the universities to which they apply.
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Develop, through general knowledge gained in a wide range of subjects, insight into both self and society.
Develop flexibility and clarity of both thought and expression in order to develop communications competence to a level required by business and industry.
Understand and utilize critical thinking processes and problem-solving techniques.
Examine and evaluate various aspects of our changing society to assist in developing a sense of personal and social responsibility as a citizen in society.
Employ basic vocational skills drawn from the areas of the humanities, social and behavioral sciences of vocational studies (business, technology).
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,786.00 *
International Tuition
$17,503.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
Apply to
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Call the
School of Liberal Arts and Sciences
at 416-415-5000, ext. 2009, or email
gas@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Thinking about attending George Brown? The General Arts and Science program is taught mainly at our Casa Loma Campus at 160 Kendal Ave., Toronto, Ontario. Sign up for an
information session
, book a general
campus tour
to see the common areas of the campus (i.e. cafeteria, student services, the gym, etc.) or explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
General Arts and Science – One-Year (Certificate) (R104)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
Brittany Barber returned to Canada after living in the United States for 13 years to attend the General Arts and Science program at George Brown College. After completing high school, she had no idea where to begin looking for a post-secondary education. She took a leap and moved back to Canada after finding out that a university preparatory program would allow her to earn transfer credits towards a degree. She plans to attend university after graduation, and hopes to eventually earn a Masters of Communication. She aspires to become a travel writer and author: “This program has helped me shape my priorities and become a responsible person. In addition to learning the course content, you learn a whole hidden set of underlying skills that are extremely beneficial. This program has helped me surpass my limits and approach new challenges with confidence.”
Brittany Barber
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.