General Arts and Science – One-Year Program (Certificate) (R104)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
General Arts and Science – One-Year
Code:
R104
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,804.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,522.00 **
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Liberal Arts & Sciences
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus; Semester 2: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
General Arts and Science (Diploma) (R101)
General Arts and Science – English for Academic Purposes (R105)
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
George Brown College's General Arts and Science (R104)
is a one-year certificate designed for students who wish to develop the skills and competencies required in college, university and the workplace. As a student in this program, you will explore subjects within humanities, social sciences and science and mathematics; develop skills in critical thinking, oral and written communications and career development; and acquire knowledge and explore ideas in a range of disciplines to meet your needs and interests. Students who meet GPA requirements may transfer into the two-year (R101) diploma program, which has established pathways to a number of universities.
Full Description
George Brown College's General Arts and Science (R104)
is a one-year certificate program designed to teach you the skills and competencies required in college, university and the workplace. The program allows you to explore a variety of subjects including:
the humanities
social sciences
natural sciences
science
mathematics
Over two semesters, you will develop skills in critical thinking, oral and written communications and career development. An effective career exploration component helps you consider your options for a vocationally specific college education, as well as your interests and eligibility for university/degree transfer.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Many students use the one-year (two semesters) certificate program to qualify for admission to various college and university programs. Others apply to the
two-year (four semesters) General Arts and Science diploma program
(R101), which allows you to apply to other college and university programs with advanced standing if you meet the grade point average and admission requirements for those programs.
Many others prefer to enter the world of work directly from the program. An education in the Liberal Arts and Sciences is valued in many workplaces and our program helps students to develop the communication and critical thinking skills required in the world of work, particularly for careers that encourage on-the-job professional development.
Educational Pathways
Vocation-specific college studies:
Students who meet the grade point average (GPA) requirements could be eligible for exemptions or advanced standing in other college programs depending on the length of their studies, their grades and the college and program requirements.
Students who successfully complete the General Arts and Science one-year (two semesters) certificate may proceed directly into the second year of the
General Arts & Science diploma
program if they meet all criteria.
University transfer options:
After one year of full-time studies, students who meet the GPA requirements can apply for admission to many university liberal arts and humanities programs, sometimes with transfer credits, depending on their grades, the university and the program requirements. Students should seek information about any program-specific and institutional requirements at those universities.
In addition, graduates of this program may qualify for entry into George Brown’s degree programs in Business, Hospitality and Technology if they meet specific requirements. For details, please see the
General Arts and Science
page.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
GSCI 1024
Environmental Science
HUMN 1111
Critical Thinking: A Reasoning Experience
MATH 1034
Mathematics for General Arts & Science
SSCI 1011
Learning and the Brain
HUMN 1035
Introduction to Media Studies
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
SSCI 1106
Introduction to Research
HUMN 1114
Reasoning and Rhetoric: Reading Between the Lines
GSSC 1055
Fundamental Themes in Geography
STS 1035
Exploring Career Options
MATH ELECTIVE (ONE REQUIRED)
Code
Course name
GSSC 1027
Personal Finance
MATH 1094
Calculus
STAT 1014
Embracing Data: Mathematical Tools for Informed Decisions
SCIENCE ELECTIVE (ONE REQUIRED)
Code
Course name
GSCI 1065
Human Biology
GSCI 1045
Nutrition
GSCI 1146
Plants and Society
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Develop, through general knowledge gained in a wide range of subjects, insight into both self and society.
Develop flexibility and clarity of both thought and expression in order to develop communications competence to a level required by business and industry.
Understand and utilize critical-thinking processes and problem-solving techniques.
Examine and evaluate various aspects of our changing society to assist in developing a sense of personal and social responsibility as a citizen in society.
Employ basic vocational skills drawn from the areas of the humanities, social and behavioural sciences of vocational studies (business, technology).
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,804.00 *
International Tuition
$17,522.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
Apply to
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Call the
School of Liberal Arts and Sciences
at 416-415-5000, ext. 2009, or email
gas@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Thinking about attending George Brown? The General Arts and Science program is taught mainly at our Casa Loma Campus at 160 Kendal Ave., Toronto, Ontario. Sign up for an
information session
, book a general
campus tour
to see the common areas of the campus (i.e., cafeteria, student services, the gym, etc.) or explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
General Arts and Science (Diploma) (R101)
General Arts and Science – English for Academic Purposes (R105)
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.