General Arts and Science – English for Academic Purposes Program (for International Students) (R115)
Apply Now:
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
General Arts and Science – English for Academic Purposes
Code:
R115
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 semesters Levels 1-9 depending on initial placement test
Starting Months:
January, March, May, July, September, October
Domestic Tuition:
Not Applicable
International Tuition:
$3,118.00 * †
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
English as a Second Language ESL
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3: Choice
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Open
Winter
2024
Not Available
Open
Spring
2024
Not Available
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
General Arts and Science – English for Academic Purposes (R105)
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
George Brown College’s English for Academic Purposes (EAP) (R115)
program is a post-secondary program for international students that helps you learn English and will prepare you for post-secondary study and future employment. This EAP program will provide you with exciting student life opportunities through co- and extra-curricular events and workshops.
Full Description
George Brown College’s
English for Academic Purposes (EAP) (R115)
is a post-secondary program that helps international students learn English. Students from around the world come to learn in our supportive and inclusive environment.
Develop a Variety of Communication Skills
In this three-semester program, you will develop skills in:
listening
speaking
reading
writing
vocabulary
grammar
Certified teachers use a wide range of interactive teaching resources both in-person in state-of-the-art classrooms and online. A unique feature of this program is that new immigrants and international students participate together in classes and student life activities.
Program Dates and Duration
We offer nine levels of EAP that progress from beginner to advanced. Each 16-week semester includes two levels.
You will begin your studies at the level determined by your placement test or an official and valid IELTS (Academic), TOEFL (iBT), or Duolingo exam score report at the time of admission or before classes begin.
Classes are held Monday to Friday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. By registering, students are expected to attend the schedule as it is assigned.
In the EAP program, students can also choose to enroll in a series of Selectives courses. These courses give students the opportunity to develop specific communication skills,  critical thinking abilities, digital skills and academic skills that will prepare them for further studies in a college environment.
Choose Your Own EAP Pathway
At the start of Level 7 or Level 8, students may choose to*:
continue in the regular English for Academic Purposes program, or
pursue Level 7 or Level 8 English for Business Studies, or
pursue Level 7 or Level 8 English for Hospitality Studies
*Space is limited and students are not guaranteed their first choice of streams.
Note:
Upon completion of Level 8, students interested in developing the higher language skills required for college or university degrees, postgraduate co-op programs or field education can pursue Level 9 studies.
Academic Year: 2023–2024
Academic Year 2023–2024
Placement Test
Start Date
End Date
August 29, 2023
September 5, 2023
October 27, 2023
October 24, 2023
October 30, 2023
December 21, 2023
January 3, 2024
January 8, 2024
March 1, 2024
February 27, 2024
March 4, 2024
April 26, 2024
April 30, 2024
May 6, 2024
June 28, 2024
June 25, 2024
July 2, 2024
August 23, 2024
CERTIFICATION
Students who successfully complete Level 8 or Level 9, with a minimum of two EAP levels completed at George Brown College, will earn an Ontario College Certificate.
Students who successfully complete Level 8 or Level 9, with just one EAP level completed at George Brown College, will earn a George Brown College Certificate.
Students who complete Level 8 are exempt from the English admissions test required for most post-secondary programs at George Brown College and many other Ontario colleges. Students who complete Level 9 are deemed to have met the English admission requirements for some George Brown College degree programs and graduate certificate programs with co-op or field education placements.
PLEASE NOTE:
Mandatory admission testing, which includes English, is required for some programs. Check program requirements.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Educational Pathways
Completion of Level 8
– Meets the English language requirement for most
certificate
and
diploma
programs at George Brown College.
Completion of Level 9
– Will prepare you with the study, research and essay-writing skills required for
diploma, postgraduate
and
degree-level
programs.
PLEASE NOTE: Mandatory admission testing, which includes English, is required for some programs. Check program requirements.
Courses
Required Courses
To determine which level each student will start the program in, students either take a level placement test at George Brown, or submit an official, valid IELTS (Academic), TOEFL (iBT), or Duolingo score report before session start. Students taking the EAP level placement test will be notified of the test date and time by the School of ESL and Immigrant Education or the International Centre.
Each level is taught over a span of eight weeks. Students who enroll in a full semester would be capable of completing two levels per semester.
CODE
COURSE NAME
ESL 1131
English for Academic Purposes 1
ESL 1132
English for Academic Purposes 2
ESL 1133
English for Academic Purposes 3
ESL 1134
English for Academic Purposes 4
ESL 1135
English for Academic Purposes 5
ESL 1136
English for Academic Purposes 6
ESL 1137
English for Academic Purposes 7
ESL 1138
English for Academic Purposes 8
ESL 1139
English for Academic Purposes 9
Note:  Choice of online or in-person classes.
Detailed course outlines
Articulation Agreement
Students who successfully complete EAP Level 8 at George Brown College are deemed to have met the English language requirements for admission to some diploma and certificate programs at 16 other Ontario colleges. Please check the program requirements or contact the School of ESL for more information.
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Communicate competently at a level required for postsecondary studies, showing flexibility and clarity of thought and expression.
Communicate competently and flexibly, in order to interact culturally appropriately, in a variety of workplace, post-secondary and/or societal environments.
Conduct research and write essays/papers/reports according to academic conventions at a level required by colleges, universities, and/or the workplace.
Develop thorough general knowledge gained in a wide range of subjects, and insight into both self and society.
Develop flexibility and clarity of both thought and expression in order to develop communications competence to a level required by business and industry.
Understand and utilize critical-thinking processes and problem-solving techniques.
Examine and evaluate various aspects of our changing society to assist in developing a sense of personal and social responsibility as a citizen in society.
Employ basic vocational skills drawn from the areas of the humanities, social and behavioural sciences or vocational studies (business, technology).
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
Not Applicable
International Tuition
$3,118.00 * †
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the fees for
one level
starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
†
Additional Cost
ID – $12.00 one-time charge
Alumni – $30.48 one-time charge
Convocation - $61.16 one-time charge
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
applicants must provide a valid passport
applicants must be 18 years of age or older at the start of classes and complete a placement test
George Brown's EAP program is a full-time program divided into nine levels of eight weeks each. Your language skills are assessed by your EAP level placement test results or your TOEFL (iBT), IELTS (Academic) or Duolingo score and then you are placed in the level that is right for you.
If you are applying for George Brown’s English for Academic Purposes (EAP) program, as a conditional pathway to a post-secondary program please see below for further information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Conditional Admission Through GBC's EAP Program
Applicants from eligible countries who do not meet George Brown’s English language requirements may be offered conditional admission to a post-secondary program through George Brown’s English for Academic Purposes (EAP). Depending on the option you have chosen for EAP level placement you may need to reapply for your diploma/degree/postgraduate program.
Do you have a TOEFL or IELTS score (within two years)?
Yes
No
Start appropriate ESL level based on your TOEFL/IELTS score.
You will need to successfully complete the required EAP level.
Write George Brown ESL level placement test. Contact
esl@georgebrown.ca
for information on level placement tests.
You will need to reapply for your diploma/degree/postgraduate program after completing the ESL placement test.
You will need to successfully complete the required EAP level.
Important information about EAP as a conditional pathway to a post-secondary program
IMPORTANT: If you are applying for the George Brown College English for Academic Purposes (EAP) program as a conditional pathway to a post-secondary program, please note the following:
You must meet eligibility requirements for the diploma/degree/postgraduate program you are applying for and submit supporting documents required. Please see the
list of supporting documents required.
We will review your application and if you are eligible, we will issue you a conditional letter of acceptance for both the EAP and the post-secondary program. This letter will assist you in applying for a Study Permit.
If you did not submit an IELTS or TOEFL score, you will be required to take the EAP level placement test after you arrive at George Brown College.
The results of the placement test will reflect your language ability and determine your starting level in the EAP program.
Once you know your EAP level, you will be required to contact your admissions officer at the International Centre to reinitiate your post-secondary program application because the date of your post-secondary program may have changed due to your EAP placement test result.
When you are finally accepted to the post-secondary program at this second stage, depending on availability, your post-secondary seat will be secure.
In all cases, final admission will be subject to diploma/degree/postgraduate program availability at the time of completion of EAP requirements.
Placement Test
Once students have registered, they must take a placement test to determine their level of English proficiency before beginning the EAP program. A test time will be provided upon registration.
Applicants have two options for determining level placement. Students must choose one option only and once the choice is made, it is final.
EAP applicants who do not have an IELTS (Academic), TOEFL (iBT) or Duolingo score will need to take the EAP level placement test after arrival in Toronto. Due to COVID-19, we are only offering online testing. OR
EAP applicants who have an IELTS, TOEFL or Duolingo score can submit their score rather than write the EAP level placement test. Alternatively, applicants can also be placed into an EAP level before session start based on a TOEFL (iBT), IELTS (Academic), or Duolingo score with the minimum Writing and Speaking score requirements shown below.
EAP STARTING LEVEL*
Duolingo
IELTS: ENTRY Requirements
TOEFL: ENTRY Requirements
Overall
Writing & Speaking
Overall
Speaking
Writing
9
105+
6
6.5
80-91
22
22
8
95-104
5.5
6
62-79
20
20
7
85-94
5.5
5.5
50-61
18
18
6
75-84
5
5
40-49
15
14
5
65-74
4-4.5
4.5
31-39
13
12
4
55-64
3.5
4
26-30
11
8
3
45-54
3
3.5
19-25
8
6
2
30-44
2.5
3
10-18
5
4
1
10-29
2.5
2.5
0-9
2.5
2.5
* 2-year test validation maximum.
You will be placed in the EAP starting level that corresponds to your lowest score in all test sections. For students interested in taking the IELTS test in Toronto, the George Brown college official IELTS test centre provides a complete IELTS testing service. For more information, please visit the
IELTS Testing service
site.
George Brown College Admissions Officers reserve the right to require TOEFL/IELTS/Duolingo results for EAP level placement on all EAP applications.
Current or returning EAP students who suspend their studies for
more than six
consecutive 8-week sessions must retake the EAP level placement test or submit a valid IELTS/TOEFL/Duolingo score in order to be placed back into the program.
Changes due to COVID-19
*Given the recent suspension of activities at English language proficiency testing centres around the world, George Brown College will accept the Duolingo English Test (DET) as a means to demonstrate English language proficiency, effective immediately. The Duolingo English Test is an English proficiency test that can be taken online and on-demand.
For more information and to take the Duolingo test please visit:
https://englishtest.duolingo.com/
​​​​​Note:
The Educational Testing Service (ETS) has rolled out a new global service to allow students to take the
TOEFL iBT
exams at home.  We will accept this at-home test at the same score levels as the regular test. The new at-home service is nearly global in that it is available to students worldwide with the exception of those in Mainland China and Iran.
Note:
Starting April 22, 2020, British Council will also provide testing options for applicants through their
IELTS Indicator
tool. GBC will accept this at-home test at the same score levels as the regular test during this Covid-19 period.
https://www.ieltsindicator.com
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance at 1-800-265-2002.
Call the
English for Academic Purposes
office at 416-415-5000, ext. 4826 or email
esl@georgebrown.ca
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Take our
virtual tour
to see our state-of-the-art facilities in downtown Toronto.
Explore related programs:
General Arts and Science – English for Academic Purposes (R105)
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.