Health Informatics Program (Postgraduate) (T402)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Health Informatics
Code:
T402
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$7,058.00 * ‡
International Tuition:
$18,434.00 ** ‡
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Computer Technology
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Mandatory Co-op or Work Integrated Project
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus; Semester 3: Co-op
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Health Information Management (C139)
Information Systems Business Analysis (with experiential learning capstone) (Postgraduate) (T405)
Office Administration – Health Services (S135)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This program is geared toward health care and information systems professionals currently employed or with experience in a health care or technology environment, or who have an interest in the advancement of information technologies in the health care delivery sector.
Efforts are made towards evening and weekend classes; however, some courses are scheduled during daytime hours. See Full Description section for further information.
Full Description
The evolution of information and communication technologies is transforming the healthcare system and creating new ways of accessing and exchanging information. These changes endeavour to benefit patient care. These technological changes also impact the health care sector. Healthcare and information systems professionals currently employed or with experience in a healthcare or technology environment, or who have an interest in the advancement of information technologies in the healthcare delivery sector, will be interested in this program.
The Health Informatics graduate certificate program brings together professionals in health-related and information technology sectors to develop specialists in health informatics who can respond to the current and emerging needs of health care systems. This intensive program is designed for IT, health care or related professionals who aspire to enter into a health informatician/analyst role, or practitioners who wish to enhance their experience with formal education. As a student in this program, you will be engaged and supported by a team of health informatician/business system analyst professionals and faculty in developing critical skills and competencies in the areas of:
health care systems, technologies and trends
ethical, professional, legal and policy implications of health information systems technologies and health information standards
problem identification and analysis
documenting and analyzing health-care organization, health-user and solution requirements
process, workflow and system/solution modelling
project management
technical writing
leadership and management
business and system analysis techniques and core professional competencies such as analytical thinking and problem solving, communication and facilitation, and collaborative skills
The Health Informatics program provides breadth and depth of applied knowledge in the field of health informatics. A key characteristic that sets this graduate certificate program apart is the applied nature of the curriculum. Students will be immersed in the process of health informatics/analysis through case studies, industry projects and practical work experience, and will be responsible for developing solutions. The uniqueness of this program is in creating graduates with work-ready skills built through applied, hands-on experience.
Graduates of the program will have acquired knowledge, skills and competencies relevant to professional certification programs in Health Informatics and Project Management.
Graduates will be able to:
Formulate change strategies to implement appropriate health information systems technologies (HIST) within the health-care setting.
Apply business and system analysis techniques to evaluate the effectiveness of health information systems technologies within a health-related setting.
Design and protoype web and mobile health apps.
Integrate relevant standards and professional, ethical and legislative requirements with the appropriate health information system technologies.
Design training and education for the effective use of HIST.
Configure all aspects of an EMR used by physicians in outpatient settings and multidisciplinary clinics.
Hands-On Experience With A Commercial Emr
Arya Health, the maker of AryaEHR, a commercially available EMR, has partnered with the George Brown College Health Informatics program to give students hands-on practical experience with an EMR in use by physicians across Canada. Students will graduate having EMR experience on their resume, giving them a competitive edge in the marketplace. George Brown College is the only College that offers this valuable experience. Find out more on
AryaEHR's website
.
IIBA ACADEMIC MEMBERSHIP
Academic Membership in the International Institute of Business Analysis (IIBA) offers colleges and universities that have Business Analyst curriculums and care about advancing the BA profession within their student population the opportunity to participate in IIBA membership and benefit from IIBA’s other products and services. The Academic recognition programs offer the students of Business Analyst-related programs the opportunity to receive recognition from the IIBA.
NEW – GRADUATES PREPARED TO WRITE THE IIBA ENTRY CERTIFICATION IN BUSINESS ANALYSIS (TM) DESIGNATION (ECBA).
Students who successfully graduate from the program will be prepared to write the IIBA Entry Certification of Business Analysis designation from the International Institute of Business Analysis. This professional designation recognizes the student’s theoretical understanding of the Business Analyst Body of Knowledge (BABOK), as well as the context of business analysis applied across industries.
Learn more about the
Entry Certification in Business Analysis
(
www.iiba.org
).
Technology Requirements
This program requires students to have access to a personal laptop with the following specifications:
Screen 13-inch minimum
Webcam + mic
8 GB RAM
256 GB SSD Hard Drive (512 GB SSD is better)
Quad-core i7 2.4GHz or better
2 TB (minimum) external hard drive
Consistent access to a reliable high-speed internet connection (minimum 10 Mbs download speed recommended)
Program Delivery
Note on program delivery: Most courses are offered in the evening and week-ends. Some courses may be scheduled 2pm-6pm on weekdays.
Your Field Education Options
In semester 3, students complete a Work Integrated Project, or qualified students are eligible for co-op. Learn more about how to qualify, apply, and important dates for co-op on the
Centre for Arts, Design & Information Technology Experiential Learning
page.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Upon completion of the program, graduates will be able to meet the requirements for positions such as:
project/program coordinator
service desk analyst
product analyst
apps analyst
testing analyst
privacy co-ordinator
training co-ordinator
clinical informatics co-ordinator
data co-ordinator
junior business analyst
Courses
Required Courses
PRINTABLE CURRICULUM PLANNER 2023-2024
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
BUS 4051
Foundations of Business Analysis
BUS 4053
Business Analysis Competencies and Techniques I
BUS 4054
IT Project Management
COMP 4014
Health Care System
COMP 4015
Health Care Information Technology
COMP 4080
Knowledge Management and Clinical Decision-Making
COMP 4050
Health Informatics and Clinical Practice I
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
COMP 4064
Career Planning and Portfolio Development
COMP 4024
Health Data Standards
COMP 4033
Health Information Systems Analysis and Evaluation
COMP 4084
Health Business and Systems Analysis Case I
COMP 4051
Health Informatics and Clinical Practice II
COMP 4083
Health Information Legislation, Privacy and Security
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
TCOP 4012
Co-op Work Placement
OR
COMP 4090
Work-Integrated Project
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Assess organizational requirements for health information system technologies (HIST).
Formulate strategies for the selection and implementation of HIST.
Design and deliver educational/training strategies for end-users.
Evaluate the impact of HIST on business/clinical processes, and on health services delivery.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,058.00 * ‡
International Tuition
$18,434.00 ** ‡
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
‡ Semester 3 fees will consist of a flat fee of $500 for co-op placement or for the work-integrated project, fees are to be paid separately, both of which are not included in the total above.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Minimum two-year diploma or bachelor's degree* in Health Sciences or related field from an accredited institution.
OR
Minimum three-year diploma in Information Technology* or related field from an accredited institution.
PLUS:
Minimum one year of work experience as a health-care professional or an IT professional, or equivalent (resumé required).
Candidates will be accepted based on the combination of relevant education and work experience.
* Please note that domestic applicants who are submitting international transcripts require a Canadian equivalency evaluation. This can be obtained through ICAS (International Credential Assessment Service) at
icascanada.ca
or WES (World Education Services) at
wes.org/ca
.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide
English language proficiency test results
must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Computer Technology
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4287
Email:
computertechnology@georgebrown.ca
The office hours are:
Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Program Co-ordinator: Dr. Thérèse Bernier
Email:
Therese.Bernier@georgebrown.ca
Phone: 416-415-5000 x 3744
Office hours: Monday, 2 – 5 p.m.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
The Health Informatics program is offered through our
School of Computer Technology
from our
Casa Loma Campus
at
146 Kendal Avenue
. Sign up for an
information session
or
campus tour
to learn more about George Brown College and the program. You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Health Information Management (C139)
Information Systems Business Analysis (with experiential learning capstone) (Postgraduate) (T405)
Office Administration – Health Services (S135)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.