Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Technician Program (T160)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Technician
Code:
T160
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,904.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,531.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Apprenticeship & Skilled Trades
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 3: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 4: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Technology (T162)
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Plumbing Techniques (T165)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This 2-year program is eligible for
a $40,000 scholarship.
*
Students in George Brown College's Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Technician program develop the ability to size, install and maintain building environmental systems for the residential and light commercial sectors. You will gain solid skills and knowledge in the design, operation and maintenance of environmental systems in heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration (HVAC/R).
*Domestic students only - see page for details.
Full Description
Rising fuel costs, indoor air quality and climate change are all contributing factors in raising awareness of the true cost of energy. There is a great need for energy-efficient building environmental system design, construction and maintenance.
In the Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Technician program students will:
Develop the ability to size, install and maintain building environmental systems for the residential and light commercial sectors.
Gain solid skills and knowledge in the design, operation and maintenance of environmental systems, in heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration (HVAC/R).
Develop practical skills through hands-on experience, working on a wide range of furnaces, air conditioners, refrigeration equipment and other appliances in our labs.
Gain competency with industry-ready skills in soldering, wiring and electric control circuitry and troubleshooting for HVAC and gas installations.
Use computer-aided design software to assess building heating and cooling requirements, select appropriate equipment and develop HVAC system drawings and specifications for the residential market.
The program follows industry-standard design practices for environmentally responsible and energy-efficient residential, commercial and industrial systems, as established by the Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Institute (HRAI), the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) and the Canada Green Building Council.
Note: When you enrol in the program in January, you are required to complete semester 2 in the summer (May to August) of the same year in order to continue into semester 3 in the fall.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Successful graduates of this diploma program are prepared for a range of positions in the HVAC field. Technicians install, maintain and repair heating, air conditioning and refrigeration systems for commercial and residential buildings.
Students will also have sufficient training to challenge the Gas Fitter 2 provincial qualification exam** and if successful (75 per cent passing grade) obtain the Gas Fitter 2 certification.
As well, for the course Building Code for HVAC (HVAC 2014) delivered in semester 3, we assist students in preparing to challenge the Ontario Ministry of Consumer Affairs and Housing, HVAC House exam.* Individuals who are successful (75 per cent passing grade) can use this qualification toward obtaining their "Building Code Identification Number" (BCIN).**
*Please note that in addition to passing the HVAC House exam, there are further requirements to qualify for a Building Code Identification Number. For more information on the Building Code Identification Number, please visit the
Ontario Building Code website
.
**The above-mentioned qualification exams are administered by the Province of Ontario. George Brown College is not responsible for the administration and/or marking of these exams.
Successful graduates of this diploma program are prepared for a range of positions in the HVAC field. Technicians install, maintain and repair heating, air conditioning and refrigeration systems for commercial and residential buildings.
Other employment opportunities for technicians include sales, system balancing and cost-estimating for projects. Experienced technicians may also explore self-employment in the gas heating industry after obtaining a Gas Fitter 2 certification.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
HVAC 1001
Refrigeration Theory I
HVAC 1006
Electrical Fundamentals for HVAC
HVAC 1018
Gas Technician III
GSCI 1022
Building Science and the Environment
MATH 1145
Math for HVAC 1
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
HVAC 1003
Refrigeration Laboratory Applications
HVAC 1008
Electrical Circuit Analysis for HVAC
HVAC 1016
Gas Technician II (Part A)
HVAC 1022
Understanding Construction Drawings
HVAC 2003
Refrigeration Theory II
MATH 1155
Math for HVAC 2
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
HVAC 1017
Gas Technician II (Part B)
HVAC 2001
Residential HVAC System Design
HVAC 2012
Air Conditioning Theory
HVAC 2014
Building Code for HVAC
PORT 1001
Portfolio
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
HVAC 1021
Gas Technician II (Part C)
HVAC 2006
Air Conditioning Laboratory Applications
HVAC 2013
HVAC Computer Applications
COMM 1113
Professional Communications for Building Technologies
GNED
General Education Elective
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Relate effectively to heating, refrigeration and air conditioning supervisors, coworkers and customers.
Work safely and in accordance with all applicable acts, regulations, legislation and codes to ensure personal and public safety.
Select and use a variety of heating, refrigeration and air conditioning tools and equipment safely and properly.
Solve math and applied science problems required to effectively install and maintain heating, refrigeration and air conditioning systems, and associated components.
Prepare and interpret electrical, mechanical and piping drawings.
Install, service and troubleshoot heating, refrigeration, air conditioning systems and associated components.
Develop strategies for ongoing personal and professional development that will lead to enhanced work performance and career opportunities, and keep pace with industry changes.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,904.00 *
International Tuition
$17,531.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Apprenticeship and Skilled Trades
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 6711
Email:
skilledtrades@georgebrown.ca
Office: Casa Loma Campus, Room E308
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Technology (T162)
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Plumbing Techniques (T165)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.