Honours Bachelor of Technology Program (Construction Management) (T312)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Technology
Code:
T312
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
4 years (1 field placement semester)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$9,689.00 * †
International Tuition:
$20,485.00 ** †
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Mandatory Field Experience
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus; Semester 3, 5, 7: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2, 4, 6, 8: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Construction Engineering Technology (T105)
Civil Engineering Technology (T164)
Construction Management (for Internationally Educated Professionals) (Postgraduate) (T403)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Ontario’s first internationally accredited four-year degree program specializing in construction management.
Program Overview
This program is eligible for
a $1000 entrance scholarship.
The Angelo DelZotto (ADZ) School of Construction Management delivers Ontario's first four-year degree program specializing in construction management. This program, launched in partnership with the construction industry is designed to respond to emerging trends in construction management in Canada. In the increasingly specialized and complex construction industry, successfully managing a construction project now requires a multidisciplinary education in construction engineering as well as practical business and management methods. The Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) degree prepares students for roles in the construction industry.
Full Description
The Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) program provides a curriculum that combines theory, applied research, field study and hands-on practical education. Recognizing that today’s successful construction manager must possess both technical and managerial skills, the curriculum combines studies in construction engineering and technology with studies in business and management methods as applied to construction.
Students obtain the knowledge and skills to manage the functions and processes of construction projects from start to finish. They master construction-related technical disciplines and soft skills that are critical to completing projects on time and within budget. Graduates of this program are entitled to the academic credential designation of
Hons. B.Tech
.
(Construction Management).
The Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) program is well recognized by the construction industry and is fully accredited by the Canadian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (CIQS).
Graduates also qualify to obtain their Gold Seal Certification (GSC) offered by the Canadian Construction Association (CCA) to become certified superintendents, foremen, estimators, project managers, construction managers and safety practitioners.
Your Field Education Options
FIELD EXPERIENCE
An integral component of the Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) degree program is a mandatory field experience semester offered in the spring/summer of the third year of the program. The field experience is jointly facilitated through the Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management and the Centre for Construction and Engineering Technologies (CCET) Industry Liaison Office (ILO).
Students are required to complete a minimum of 450 hours of appropriate field experience or the equivalent of verifiable past field experience, in the field of construction management in order to fulfill the field experience requirement.
Students are allowed to complete the field experience through the following pathways:
Field Experience course:
Students register in the Field Experience course (TCOP 1001), secure a field experience opportunity in a construction management-related role, obtain a minimum of 450 hours of relevant fieldwork experience or equivalent and pass the course.
Prior Learning Assessment Recognition (PLAR):
Students who have prior field experience equivalent to the minimum requirement can seek to complete the field experience requirement of the program through the PLAR process.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
The Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) program prepares graduates to assume leadership roles in all aspects of the construction industry. Career options available to graduates of this program may include, but are not limited to, the following:
construction manager
project manager
project coordinator
field engineer
site superintendent
estimator
project monitor
building science specialist
building condition assessor
construction claims specialist
construction quality control specialist
construction health and safety specialist
construction cost consultant
developer
construction sales manager
project controls specialist
site inspector
contractor
subcontractor
CONSTRUCTION MANAGERS NEED SPECIALIZED SKILLS TO SUCCEED
In this rapidly changing and growing industry, more and more highly trained construction managers are needed – managers who can effectively function within multidisciplinary teams of owners/developers, project managers, architects, engineers, planners, government authorities, contractors and trade contractors. In addition, the industry needs construction managers with a comprehensive knowledge of construction safety and quality management systems and sustainable construction practices. The construction industry also requires professionals who possess a broad technical and business management background that allows them to coordinate multidisciplinary teams and liaise with various stakeholders.
Construction managers plan, organize, lead and control construction projects from start to finish, according to design, regulatory compliance requirements, contracts, specifications, budgets and schedules, with a focus on sustainable construction techniques and practices.
ACADEMIC ACCREDITATIONS
The Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) program is fully accredited by the Canadian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (CIQS).
Graduates of the Hons. B.Tech. (Construction Management) program are qualified to obtain professional memberships in various construction management associations. Professional memberships are based on the candidate’s education, training and work experience.
With the completion of this degree program, graduates will have completed all academic requirements for professional membership at the Canadian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (CIQS). Membership must be applied for separately.  Members of the CIQS obtain the Professional Quantity Surveyors (PQS) or Construction Estimator Certified (CEC) designation.
Graduates also qualify to obtain the Gold Seal Certification (GSC) offered by the Canadian Construction Association (CCA). The Gold Seal Certification in the Canadian construction industry is available for superintendents, foremen, estimators, project managers, owner’s construction managers and safety practitioners. Gold Seal Certification is based on the candidate’s education, training and professional work experience.
Industry
The Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) degree is well respected in the construction sector. Here's what sector leaders had to say about our program:
“The introduction of the new Construction Management program at George Brown College is the next stage of development of professionalism in the construction industry. For the first time, the industry has its own degree-specific program which brings together the two most important elements identified by leading construction executives – the science of construction and the science of management.”
Temple Harris
, vice-chairman, Gillam Group
“In order to provide the necessary leadership, we need to staff our projects with construction professionals. Therefore, we believe the four-year degree program in Construction Management at George Brown College is an important component to ensure our continual requirement for construction professionals will be met.”
Christopher Rick
, PCL Constructors, Canada Inc.
“As the industry expands and continues to change, it is imperative that individuals overseeing and managing construction projects are properly trained in all facets of the business.”
James Zippel
, General Manager, Electrical Service & Projects, Ainsworth
“It is a fact that the construction industry is the largest employer in the Greater Toronto Area. Producing future graduates who already have the necessary construction-specific skills as they start their careers will only help strengthen the long-term success of our industry.”
Greg Kozicz
, president, Alberici Constructors, Ltd.
“In our opinion, there continues to be a real need for improved and advanced education and training in the construction sector and an improved method of attracting and retaining the best and brightest of our future generations. We submit that this program is a significant step in the right direction toward achieving these goals and believe that successful graduates of an effective four-year degree program will help to raise the bar in terms of the knowledge and capabilities of companies involved in the construction industry.”
Michael George
, president, Trisura Insurance
“The urgency for a program of this nature is fuelled by the rapid change in our construction industry and the fact that it is becoming more technology-driven each day. Having graduates of such competency enter the industry with refined skills on both the technical and managerial aspects of construction will not only fill a void that currently exists but bring immeasurable promise to the future of project managers, site superintendents and construction management in general.”
Mike Van Volsen
, operations manager, Access Suspended Platforms Inc.
Educational Pathways
Graduates of the Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) program qualify to pursue graduate studies in relevant fields of study. They need to directly contact universities to explore what qualified graduate school opportunities exist.
Some recent graduates have pursued further studies at the University of Waterloo, Columbia University, Toronto Metropolitan University and others.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
BLDG 1106
Construction Materials
BLDG 1153
Introduction to Construction Management
BLDG 1156
Construction Materials Testing and Analysis
BLDG 1157
Residential Construction Technology
BLDG 1158
Blueprint Reading and Construction Measurement
BLDG 1193
Technical Communications
MATH 1151
Technical Mathematics 1
Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
BLDG 1107
Construction Surveying
BLDG 1162
Building Code and Regulations 1
BLDG 1166
Construction Graphics 1
BSCI 2101
Foundations in Building Science
MATH 1181
Technical Mathematics 2
Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
BLDG 2080
Construction Estimating 1 – Quantity Surveying
BLDG 2109
Soils and Foundations
BLDG 2081
Structural Systems in Building Construction 1
BLDG 2166
Construction Graphics 2
BSCI 3101
Applications in Building Science
LAW 1151
Construction Law
Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
BLDG 2082
Structural Systems in Building Construction 2
BLDG 2105
Construction Estimating 2 – Pricing
BLDG 2204
Commercial Construction Technology
ECON 2005
Macro and Micro Economic Theory
MGMT 3101
Construction Project Scheduling
Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
BLDG 2111
Highrise Construction Technology
BLDG 3025
Construction Estimating 3 – Bidding
BLDG 3041
Mechanical and Electrical Construction Practices
BLDG 3043
Construction Health and Safety
BLDG 3044
Construction Site Engineering Management
BLDG 3045
Heavy Construction Management Practices 1
BLDG 3055
Work Term Preparation 1
Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
BLDG 3166
Construction Project Accounting
BLDG 3167
Construction Cost Control
BLDG 3168
Capstone 1 – Bid Competition
BLDG 3169
Work Term Preparation 2
BLDG 3175
Heavy Construction Management Practices 2
MGMT 3120
Construction Quality Practices
MGMT 3150
Construction Contract Administration
Liberal Studies Elective
SUMMER FIELD EXPERIENCE SEMESTER
Code
Course Name
TCOP 1001
Field Experience (450 hours)*
SEMESTER 7
Code
Course Name
BLDG 3152
Economics of Project Development
BLDG 3170
Preconstruction Cost Planning
BLDG 3177
Applications in Building Information Modelling (BIM)
BLDG 3178
Decision Analysis and Critical Thinking
BLDG 4020
Research Methods
MGMT 4050
Construction Project Procurement 1
MGMT 4055
Construction Labour Relations and Human Resources
MGMT 4088
Construction Business Management & Entrepreneurship
SEMESTER 8
Code
Course Name
BLDG 4021
Construction Risk Management
BLDG 4050
Sustainable Construction
BLDG 4150
Capstone Industry Research 2
MGMT 4052
Project Financial Monitoring
MGMT 4090
Construction Procurement 2
MGMT 4091
Leadership and Ethics for Construction Managers
*An additional field placement fee applies for the work semester.
The program is continuously reviewed and adjusted to meet the needs of the construction industry and therefore may be subject to change.
If you are a George Brown College student graduating with a grade point average of 3.0 or higher from the three-year
Construction Engineering Technology program (T105)
, the three-year
Architectural Technology program (T109)
, the three-year
Interior Design Technology (T170
), the three-year
Building Renovation Technology program (T148)
or the three-year
Civil Engineering Technology program (T164)
, or you are graduating from a program comparable to the four programs above at another Ontario college, you may be eligible to enter a degree completion pathway to this program.
For more information, call 416-415-5000, ext. 6297, or email
construction_degree@georgebrown.ca
.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Use relevant media to communicate all manner of information related to a construction project.
Analyze the past performance of construction projects to predict and improve the execution of future projects.
Manage construction projects in a compliant, safe, ethical and sustainable manner.
Apply management tools and techniques to execute construction projects on time and within budget.
Recognize and value the diversity of opinions, processes and approaches in executing construction projects.
Incorporate effective leadership strategies to develop high-functioning, multidisciplinary and multicultural teams and workgroups.
Apply the principles and practices of leadership development and human resources to manage and develop people in the construction industry.
Analyze technical problems encountered in construction projects and develop appropriate solutions in accordance with the principles and practices of construction science and management.
Apply business, accounting and financial principles and practices to effectively manage construction project costs.
Apply the principles and practices of construction management in assessing the key performance indicators of construction projects.
Evaluate potential risks impacting construction projects and devise appropriate risk mitigation strategies.
Create technical documents relevant to the design, procurement and execution of construction projects and manage documentation flow effectively.
Behave in a fair, ethical and responsible manner consistent with professional codes of conduct, laws, policies and contracts.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$9,689.00 * †
International Tuition
$20,485.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
† Tuition fees for this program do NOT include the cost of the Field Placement.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma with six grade 12 University (U) or University/College (M) courses, or equivalent,
including:
Grade 12 (U) English
and
any grade 12 (U) mathematics.
A grade of at least 60 per cent in English and math
An overall average of 65 per cent in six grade 12 (U) or (M) courses.
Recommended courses: basic computer software applications
and
calculus and vectors.
OR
Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)**
grade 12 (U) English
and
grade 12 (U) mathematics are required
grade of 65 per cent or higher in English and math
Post-secondary courses in English and mathematics will be considered (only specific courses will be accepted).
** There is no mature student testing in the required credits for degree programs. Mature applicants must have the English and math credits required. Additional information on where and how to upgrade can be found on the
English
and
math
upgrading pages.
English language proficiency
George Brown College ESL Level 9; TOEFL 84 overall and 21 in each skill band (Online); IELTS 6.5 overall and 6.0 in each skill band; MELAB 85; CAEL overall 70 (writing 60)
Proficiency in English communication is necessary for success in this program.
Please visit
English Proficiency page
for more details.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting May 7, 2018. The college shall ensure that all students admitted to the above-named program during the period of consent will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Laptop and Internet Specifications
The Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management strongly recommends that students own or purchase a laptop and arrange for home Internet service with 25 to 40 Mbps and a ping time of 20–100 ms.
The laptop specifications should meet or exceed the following specifications:
operating system: Windows 10 Home 64-bit English
processor: 9th Generation Intel® Core™ i7-9750H (12MB Cache, up to 4.5 GHz, 6 cores)
memory (RAM): 16GB (2x8GB  DDR4 2666MHz)
disk space: 256GB M.2 PCIe NVMe Solid State Drive (Boot) + 1TB 5400 rpm 2.5" SATA hard drive (Storage)
display card: NVIDIA® GeForce RTX™ 2060 6GB GDDR6
connectivity: 802.11ac WiFi and Bluetooth, 2 x 2
ports: 1x HDMI 2.0; 3x SuperSpeed USB 3.1 Gen 1 Type-A including 1x with PowerShare; 1x 2-in-1 SD / MicroMedia Card slot; 1x Wedge lock slot
screen size: minimum 15.6 inch FHD(1920 x 1080) 300nits IPS Anti-Glare LED Backlit display with 144Hz refresh rate
audio: 1 combo headphone / microphone jack
The purchase of a Mac laptop is not recommended because many of the programs do not run on the Mac platform operating system.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 6297
Email:
construction_degree@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room E228.
The Centre for Construction and Engineering Technologies (CCET) Industry Liaison Office (ILO) hosts an open house typically in the autumn and spring. For more information visit
Construction and Engineering Open House page
.
For general information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
.
Explore related programs:
Construction Engineering Technology (T105)
Civil Engineering Technology (T164)
Construction Management (for Internationally Educated Professionals) (Postgraduate) (T403)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.