Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis Program (S302)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis
Code:
S302
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
4 years (8 semesters) + 14-Week Field Experience Term (unpaid)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$7,238.00 *
International Tuition:
$20,365.00 **
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Health & Wellness
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field work begins in semester 3 and includes a 14-week placement in the summer before semester 7.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Not Available
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2, 6, 8: Hybrid; Semester 4: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Autism and Behavioural Science (Postgraduate) (C405)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
George Brown College was the first college in Toronto to offer the Behavioural Science Technology Advanced Diploma and spearheaded the development of the provincial Autism and Behavioural Science programs. This honours degree program is the latest evolution reflecting our leadership in the field.
Program Overview
This program is eligible for
a $1000 entrance scholarship.
George Brown College's Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis
four-year degree program combines philosophy, methodology and theory with a strong applied learning component to create a comprehensive understanding of behavioural psychology and, more specifically, Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA).
Full Description
George Brown College's Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis four-year degree program takes an in-depth look at Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA) – a field of study that uses a systematic and analytical approach to modify behaviour in a desirable way.
We have been providing training and education in applied behaviour analysis in Toronto for more than 15 years. Our graduates are leaders of behavioural treatment in fields as varied as forensic mental health, autism spectrum disorder and acquired brain injury.
ABA is an effective practice that is often used with populations who have:
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
brain injury
dementia
developmental disabilities
addiction
mental health disorders
What you will be studying:
Applied behaviour analysis (ABA) is a scientific approach to the treatment and understanding of human behaviour. This approach can be applied to the entire range of human behaviour (i.e., thoughts, feelings and actions). Research has shown that an evidence-based approach such as ABA is most effective at decreasing problem behaviour and developing a variety of skills.
The ABA approach involves three main components:
Component 1: A complete behavioural assessment
is conducted. A variety of interview and observational techniques are used to gain an understanding of the behaviour to be changed. Students learn how to observe and analyze behaviour in a variety of situations in order to develop an effective treatment strategy.
Component 2:
The next step is to
use the results of the behavioural assessment to develop an effective plan
that will reduce specific problem behaviours and develop or strengthen cognitive and behavioural skills. Students will learn a variety of behavioural and cognitive behavioural techniques that can be used to change behaviour.
Component 3:
The final phase is an
ongoing evaluation of components one and two.
Students will learn how to measure the effectiveness of their interventions, and continue to refine and revise their interventions based on the results of these measures.
RESEARCH COMPONENT
A foundational aspect of this degree lies with the research component of the program. Students will begin preparing for this capstone project in years 1 and 2 through research preparatory courses. During the fall and winter semesters of year 3, students will learn how to prepare an applied research proposal. The actual research will be conducted during the fall semester of the fourth year. Students will receive faculty support throughout the entire process.
ABAI VERIFIED COURSE SEQUENCE
The Association for Behavior Analysis International has verified the following courses toward the coursework requirements for eligibility to take the Board Certified Assistant Behavior Analyst® examination. Applicants will need to meet additional eligibility requirements and demonstrate they can reside in an authorized country before they can be deemed eligible to take the examination.
View ABAI approved course sequence.
The Behavior Analyst Certification Board (BACB) has published Verified Course Sequence pass rate data for 2020. This provides information on the percentage of first-time candidates who sat and passed the exam to become Board Certified Assistant Behavior Analysts (BCaBAs) from each Verified Course Sequence in this year.
PREPARING FUTURE LEADERS
In addition to preparing students to be practicing behaviourists, the degree program helps prepare them to become leaders in this emerging field. Not only will students be supported in becoming client-centred clinicians, they will also have the opportunity to learn the skills to advance behaviour analysis from a system-wide perspective, to support large-scale changes in agencies, organizations and government.
This intensive program, delivered on-site at George Brown’s state-of-the-art Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences located at the Waterfront Campus, is suitable for students who are data-driven, enjoy analyzing patterns and like to work with challenging behaviours.
The program’s core courses are focused on five areas of learning:
behavioural science theories, principles and methods
special populations
psychology
research methods/statistics
ethics, professionalism and leadership
ADVANCED-ENTRY OPTIONS
Students with a 3.0 GPA or higher, who meet one of the following requirements, are eligible to enter a summer (May-August) bridging pathway that leads into the third year (semester 5) of the
Honours Bachelors of Behaviour Analysis (S303)
degree program.
any approved Ontario college behavioural science technician diploma program, OR
George Brown students who have successfully completed two years of the Behavioural Science Technology advanced diploma (C116) program, OR
graduates of George Brown’s Behaviour Science Technician (C146) diploma program
For more details, please contact Program Co-ordinator Don Togade at
Don.Togade@georgebrown.ca
.
External applicants from other institutions will be assessed for advanced standing on a case-by-case basis.
As of July 2024, the profession of applied behaviour analysis in Ontario will come under the jurisdiction of the newly expanded College of Psychologists and Behaviour Analysts of Ontario.
Your Field Education Options
While classroom theory is a very important part of your learning in this Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis program, we believe that field placement plays a critical role in solidifying that experience by letting you apply classroom theory to a real-world environment.
You can expect to participate in block field placements in semesters 4 and 6. Between semesters 6 and 7 (between years three and four), you will complete one 14-week field experience term (unpaid) during which you will be expected to conduct a research thesis.
Prior to starting the field experience term, a field co-ordinator will help students:
explore their interests
prepare for interviews
facilitate interview meetings by providing feedback
Once students are in their placement settings, they will obtain support from the agency on-site supervisor as well as support from a college faculty field liaison.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
ABA practitioners may find themselves in roles that include the following responsibilities:
assessment of a client’s skills
the development and implementation of skill acquisition programs
functional assessment of challenging behaviours
behaviour management plans
data collection and analysis
case management
Their knowledge and skills are applicable to numerous opportunities, which may include such job titles as:
Autism Spectrum Disorders consultant
behaviour technician
behaviour therapist
behavioural consultant
behavioural specialist
instructor therapist
recreational therapist
residential support worker
transition co-ordinator
vocational support worker
Educational Pathways
Graduates of this Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis program have gone on to earn a master’s degree at the following institutions in these related areas: applied behaviour analysis, applied disability studies, counselling psychology.
Brock University – Applied Disability Studies
The Chicago School of Professional Psychology – Applied Behavior Analysis
Missouri State University – Applied Behavior Analysis
Western University – Applied Behaviour Analysis
University of British Columbia - Special Education
Yorkville University – Master of Arts in Counselling Psychology
Graduates of a health sciences program who have an interest in working in long-term care facilities should consider applying to our
Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care (S417) postgraduate certificate
.
(S417) Program Details:
two-semester program
learn to co-ordinate and manage a health-care team of interprofessional complex and long-term care professionals
delivered online and on-demand to accommodate working professionals
includes a clinical field placement component
Courses
Required Courses
Semester 1
Course Code
Courses
BEHA 1001
Behaviour Theory and Principles I
BEHA 1002
Introduction to Psychology
BEHA 1003
Communication and Critical Thinking
COMM1190
Critical Thinking to Scholarly Writing
Liberal Studies Elective
Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 2
Course Code
Courses
BEHA 1101
Behaviour Theory and Principles II
BEHA 1102
Developmental Disabilities in Ontario: Policy and Process
BEHA 1103
Developmental Psychology
Liberal Studies Elective
Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 3
Course Code
Courses
BEHA 2003
Abnormal Psychology
BEHA 2005
Professional Communications
BEHA 2007
ABA Assessment: Processes and Procedures
BEHA 2008
Introduction to Skill Development
BEHA 2104
Research Methods
Semester 4
Course Code
Courses
BEHA 2009
Skill Development Advanced Applications
BEHA 2010
Behaviour Reduction
BEHA 2105
Ethics: Moral Philosophy
BEHA 2109
Supervision Seminar I
BEHA 2110
Block Placement I
Semester 5
Course Code
Courses
BEHA 3001
Group Behaviour Therapy
BEHA 3002
Behavioural Approaches to Acquired Brain Injury and Gerontology
BEHA 3004
Psychometrics
BEHA 3005
Standards of Practice In ABA
BEHA 2103
Behavioural Approaches to Autism, Developmental Disabilities and Other Behavioural Issues
BEHA 2004
Statistics
Semester 6
Course Code
Courses
BEHA 3101
Clinical Behaviour Analysis
BEHA 3102
Mediator Training: Application to Parents and Staff
BEHA 3109
Supervision Seminar II
BEHA 3110
Block Placement II
BEHA 4002
Behavioural Approaches to Health and Well-being
Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 7
Course Code
Courses
BEHA 3103
Behavioural Approaches to Education
BEHA 4001
Organizational Behaviour Management
BEHA 4003
Service Delivery Systems and Interprofessional Practice
BEHA 4106
Applied Thesis Development Seminar
BEHA 4107
Applied Thesis Project Seminar
Fall
BEHA 4000 – Work Experience
14-Week Field Experience Term (UNPAID)
Semester 8
Course Code
Courses
BEHA 4101
Consolidation of Behavioural Principles and Practice
BEHA 4102
Advanced Topics in Behavioural Science
BEHA 4103
Leadership in Behaviour Analysis
BEHA 4104
Professional Standards and Practices in Dissemination
BEHA 4105
Thesis(42 hours)
Liberal Studies Elective
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Learn about psychological theory, research and practices.
Design and conduct various assessments across a variety of settings and populations.
Design and implement research-based programs in applied behaviour analysis and evaluate their effectiveness.
Practice behavioural consulting skills with different populations.
Demonstrate appropriate social, professional and clinical skills in the context of an interdisciplinary setting with a variety of clients, their support networks, professionals and the community.
Maintain a high degree of professionalism and ethical standards.
Communicate, orally and in written form, results of behavioural assessments and treatment programs.
Understand, critically evaluate and synthesize issues in society.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,238.00 *
International Tuition
$20,365.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma with six grade 12 University (U) or University/College (M) courses, with a combined average of 65 per cent or higher
English, grade 12 (U) with a grade of 65 per cent or higher
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 math (U) with a grade of 60 per cent or higher
biology, grade 11 (U) or grade 12 (U); OR chemistry, grade 11 (U) or grade 12 (U); OR physics, grade 11 (U) or grade 12 (U); OR environmental science, grade 11 (M) (SVN3M) with a grade of 60 per cent or higher
OR
Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)**:
grade 12 (U) English with a grade of 65 per cent or higher
grade 11 (U or M) or grade 12 (U) mathematics with a grade of 60 per cent or higher
biology, grade 11 (U) or grade 12 (U); OR chemistry, grade 11 (U) or grade 12 (U); OR physics, grade 11 (U) or grade 12 (U); OR environmental science, grade 11 (M) (SVN3M) with a grade of 60 per cent or higher
post-secondary courses in English, mathematics and science will be considered (certain courses only)
** There is no mature student testing in the required credits for degree programs. Mature applicants must have the English, math and science credits required. Additional information on where and how to upgrade can be found on the
English
,
math
and
science
upgrading pages.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
English language proficiency required:
George Brown College ESL Level 9; TOEFL 84 overall and 21 in each skill band (online); IELTS 6.5 overall and 6.0 in each skill band; MELAB 85; CAEL overall 70 (writing 60)
Proficiency in English communications is necessary for success in this program.
Find out more about
English proficiency
.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting July 21, 2015. Renewal of the Ministerial Consent is a cyclical requirement and the College is in its renewal phase. The college shall ensure that all students admitted to the above-named program during the period of consent will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
CLINICAL PRE-PLACEMENT HEALTH FORM REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAM POLICY
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 10 to 12 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres, Tdap shot valid every 10 years and two-step TB skin test), a clear
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year,
Standard First Aid certificate
renewed every three years,
CPR level HCP
renewed every year, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the given deadline to
ParaMed.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations that students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Pre-placement website
.
POLICE VULNERABLE SECTOR CHECK REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAM POLICY (MUST BE RENEWED EVERY YEAR)
The Police Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Police Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Police Vulnerable Sector Check will not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the police record check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Pre-placement website
Public Health recommends that people working with young children and other vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Call the George Brown School of Health and Wellness at 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. or E-mail
hwprograms@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Autism and Behavioural Science (Postgraduate) (C405)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.