Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) Program (Bridging) (H316)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management)
Code:
H316
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
5 semesters
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$8,293.00 * † ‡
International Tuition:
$20,834.00 ** † ‡
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing, and that is why we have incorporated work-integrated learning opportunities into all CHCA programs.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 5, 7: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 6, 8: Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) (H315)
Culinary Management (H100)
Culinary Management (Integrated Learning) (H116)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
The only four-year Culinary Management bachelor's degree in Canada.
Program Overview
George Brown College offers the only four-year Culinary Management bachelor's degree in Canada. H316 is a bridge pathway into the H315 Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) program, specifically designed for graduates of Culinary Management diploma programs. Graduates of these diploma programs may be eligible to enter the third year of the degree upon successful completion of six bridge courses.
Full Description
George Brown College offers the only four-year Culinary Management bachelor's degree in Canada. With the continuing growth of the culinary and food industry, there is a need for professionals who can marry detailed gastronomic knowledge, advanced management skills and the level of business acumen required to work in modern Canadian kitchens and food companies.
H316 is a bridge pathway into the H315 Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) program, specifically designed for graduates of Culinary Management diploma programs. Graduates of these diploma programs may be eligible to enter the third year of the degree upon successful completion of six bridge courses.
The Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) meets industry demand by preparing students with the depth and breadth of knowledge commensurate with an honours level, undergraduate commerce degree specializing in culinary management. Combining commerce, culinary, food studies and externship experiences, this degree program prepares graduates for kitchen, operations management or food development positions. Throughout our culinary management degree, students will gain an understanding of eight key areas:
culinary proficiency
culinary theory
accounting and finance
marketing and communications
human resources and risk management
specialized business
research
general knowledge (liberal studies)
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Your Field Education Options
Take part in a unique and robust externship. George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the program's learning outcomes. This valuable work experience can be added to your resumé.
In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide learning opportunities with real-world challenges and customers.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
A world of opportunities awaits you when you graduate. Completion of this program will demonstrate your level of commitment to cuisine, thus differentiating you from other chefs. The skills you learn at George Brown are in demand by employers across Canada and internationally, and you will have the training to build a successful career at home or around the world.
While some degree graduates may start their careers in an entry-level position, they will have the knowledge and skills to expedite their career pathways. Depending on the graduate's focus and level of experience, possible career pathways include:
Food Service Employment Areas
Possible Career Paths
Multi-unit Food Service
director of operations with culinary experience requirements
corporate/menu development chef
Retirement Facilities and Chains
director of food service
executive chef
director of food and beverage
Hospitality and Tourism
director of food and beverage
positions with various types of organizations such as attractions, convention centres, hotels, off-premise catering, etc.
Contract Food Service Management
corporate or regional chef
district manager
regional manager
regional vice-president
Food Processors and Brokers
development chef
sales representative
sales manager
Distributors
corporate chef
executive chef
Business Consulting
food service logistics
food and beverage consulting
food and beverage market research
Entrepreneurship
media work
event chef
owning a restaurant, catering services
Educational Pathways
Graduates of this program will be prepared to continue their studies post-degree in master's programs in the fields of business, gastronomy and environmental studies. Graduates may also be eligible for direct entry into the
Culinary Arts – Italian
,
French Pastry
programs, as well as the
Food and Nutrition Management
program.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 4
Bridge Semester Courses
Code
Course name
HOSF 1292
Gastronomy
HOSF 2406
Principles of Marketing
HOSF 1277
Fundamentals of Accounting
HOSF 2309
Research Fundamentals
HOSF 1299
Managerial Accounting
HOSF 2313
Macroeconomics: Canada in the Global Environment
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course name
HOSF 3505
Market and Feasibility Research I
HOSF 3507
Strategic Managerial Communications
HOSF 3509
Sustainability in Food Service
HOSF 3604
Finance
LOWER Liberal Studies Elective
LOWER Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course name
HOSF 3602
Food Science and Nutrition
HOSF 3501
Human Resources Management
HOSF 3603
Market and Feasibility Research II
HOSF 3605
Statistics
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
Scheduled between Semester 6 & 7
Code
Course name
EXTN 2011
Work Integrated Learning II (WIL) Personalized
SEMESTER 7
Code
Course name
HOSF 4703
Restaurant Risk Management
HOSF 4705
Beverages, Sensory and Evaluation
HOSF 4707
Advanced Food Science and Nutrition
HOSF 4709
Strategic Revenue Management
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 8
Code
Course name
HOSF 4804
Research and Development
HOSF 4806
Strategies for the Black Box
HOSF 4808
Capstone
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Distinguish among and apply current practices from industry and scholarship relating to accounting, marketing, customer service, human resources, supply chain management, health and safety, costing and pricing, hospitality and risk management.
Identify, appraise and/or apply various methods, skills, tools and systems used in a variety of disciplines related to culinary practice and study.
Research and analyze societal, environmental, cultural, economic, culinary and/or market demands at local, regional and international levels.
Collaborate effectively as part of a diverse culinary management team in order to develop strategies to realize organizational objectives in a variety of food service environments.
Drawing on fields of study and practice, develop and manage strategic partnerships, customer service and relationships.
Plan and execute fundamental contemporary cooking techniques that reflect an advanced knowledge of food theory and practice, nutrition and professional systems used in the culinary industry.
Use management theories and methodologies in order to provide recommendations for realizing organizational objectives specific to different kinds of culinary operations.
Develop a new food product, business and/or event, in order to facilitate market realization.
Apply advanced management techniques and theories to support large-scale, multi-unit culinary operations.
Monitor changing practices and evolving knowledge related to culinary management to select strategies for lifelong learning and professional advancement in the field of study.
Examine personal strengths, weaknesses and knowledge limitations in order to develop strategies that promote growth and build leadership potential.
Communicate information and concepts using advanced verbal and written skills that reflect disciplinary norms.
Use qualitative and/or quantitative information to develop cogent arguments, make sound judgments and apply concepts, principles and techniques that inform or enhance diverse types of culinary operations.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$8,293.00 * † ‡
International Tuition
$20,834.00 ** † ‡
Additional Costs
*
Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for two semesters of the program starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall
2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Spring
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice.
† Fees for this program do not include the cost of the co-op work term (EXTN 2011, between semesters 6 and 7), which is approximately $500.
‡
Additional Cost
Description
Cost
Uniform
$290
Knives and small wares
$500–$700
Books
$1600
Black safety shoes
$110–$160
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
This program is a bridge pathway into the Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) H315 degree program, and is designed for graduates of Culinary Management diploma programs.
Requirements:
A Culinary Management diploma with a program GPA of 2.7 or higher and completion of required certificates (Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR, Smart Serve Certificate, Sanitation Certificate, WHMIS Certificate).
Prospective students with Culinary Credentials outside of Ontario will require Department assessment, which may result in additional courses and completion of certificates (Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR, Smart Serve Certificate, Sanitation Certificate, WHMIS Certificate) in addition to the bridge semester. International and out-of-province applicants who believe they are eligible for this program are invited to contact the co-ordinator Warren Ford at
wford@georgebrown.ca
.
The H316 bridge courses (six core courses) take place from May to August. To continue to semester 5 of the program, students must complete the designated bridge pathway and maintain good standing with a minimum 2.3 program GPA (67 per cent or above).
Note:
The bridge for entry into semester 5 (Year 3) of the H315 program comprises six core courses (Gastronomy, Principles of Marketing, Fundamentals of Accounting, Research Fundamentals, Managerial Accounting and Macroeconomics: Canada in the Global Environment, a course designed specifically for the bridge).
NOTE FOR CURRENT GEORGE BROWN STUDENTS:
Note 1:
Current George Brown
DOMESTIC
students in
H100 – Culinary Management
,
H116 – Culinary Management (Integrated Learning)
or
H119 – Culinary Management – Nutrition
programs who wish to apply for H316, are invited to apply on
ontariocolleges.ca
. The admissions office will verify your current standing in the diploma program, and process your application accordingly.
Note 2:
Current George Brown
INTERNATIONAL
(VISA) students in
H100 – Culinary Management
,
H116 – Culinary Management (Integrated Learning)
or
H119 – Culinary Management – Nutrition
programs who wish to apply for H316, are invited to apply on the
Online Application System for International Students
. The International Admissions Office will verify your current standing in the diploma program, and process your application accordingly.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
English language proficiency required
George Brown College ESL Level 9; TOEFL 84 overall and 21 in each skill band (online); IELTS 6.5 overall and 6.0 in each skill band; MELAB 85; CAEL overall 70 (writing 60)
Proficiency in English communication is necessary for success in this program.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting October 11, 2016. The college shall ensure that all students admitted to the above-named program during the period of consent will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens, including nuts, dairy and shellfish, are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
HONOURS BACHELOR of COMMERCE- BRIDGING (H316)
For general Chef School inquiries please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Open House Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Register for an Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) (H315)
Culinary Management (H100)
Culinary Management (Integrated Learning) (H116)
I'm not sure what the future holds, but I do know we are almost through this. There have been some tough times, but we consistently resist and grow from these experiences. Throughout the four years, I have been with George Brown College, I have achieved my goals and open the doors for many other opportunities. Now that I have been through a degree program focused on a culinary background and loaded with leadership, communication and a foundation to build your passions into reality. Even though the global pandemic impacted my last two years of the program, I have been able to come out with an Honours education and have a further depth of food literacy, food science, the sustainability of food, Business, Marketing, and the Risks of operating a business in a hospitality environment. However, I feel my toolbox's essential tool is understanding the power and knowledge of cooking and how it can change a great meal into an extraordinary experience for all our multi-sensories and chemo-sensories.
If I can leave a piece for the cohorts of this program; Keep changing the world, we need inspiration, and we need to find more ways to make everyone's livelihood nourished and sheltered. It's up to us to decide how we want our unborn to survive, and if we keep eating the way we consume, insofar as overeating or wasting good food, the sustainability of how we survive will implode.
Michael Saunders
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.