Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis Program (Year 4 Bridge) (S304)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis
Code:
S304
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 Semesters + 14 week Field Experience Term (Unpaid)
Starting Months:
January
Domestic Tuition:
$7,078.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Health & Wellness
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
14-week placement in the Fall after Semester 7.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Not Available
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Suspended
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (S302)
Autism and Behavioural Science (Postgraduate) (C405)
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (Year 3 Bridge) (S303)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
George Brown College was the first college in Toronto to offer the Behavioural Science Technology advanced diploma and spearheaded the development of the Provincial Autism and Behavioural Science programs.
We have been providing training and education in Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA) in Toronto for nearly 20 years.
Program Overview
George Brown College's Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (S304)
accelerated degree program stream is open to students who have successfully completed a three-year advanced diploma in an approved behavioural science technology program. This three-semester program starts with a winter bridging semester that leads into year four (or semester 7) of the four-year honours degree. Students will gain a comprehensive understanding of behavioural psychology and, more specifically, Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA).
Full Description
George Brown College's Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (S304) (Year 4 Bridge)
is an accelerated degree program open to students who have completed an approved three-year advanced behavioural science technology program. Students will start with a bridge semester (January - April) that leads into Semester 7 (May - June). This is followed by an unpaid internship (September - December), and finishes with the final term, Semester 8 (January - April). Throughout the program, students will gain a comprehensive understanding of behavioural psychology and, more specifically, Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA).
Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA) is a field of study that uses a systematic and analytical approach to modify behaviour in a desirable way.
ABA is an effective practice often used with populations who have:
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
brain injury
dementia
developmental disabilities
addiction
mental health disorders
What you will be studying:
Applied behaviour analysis (ABA) is a scientific approach to the treatment and understanding of human behaviour. This approach can be applied to the entire range of human behaviour (i.e., thoughts, feelings and actions). Research has shown that an evidence-based approach such as ABA is most effective at decreasing problem behaviour and developing a variety of skills.
The ABA approach involves three main components:
Component 1:
A
complete behavioural assessment
is conducted. A variety of interview and observational techniques are used to gain an understanding of the behaviour to be changed. Students learn how to observe and analyze behaviour in a variety of situations in order to develop an effective treatment strategy.
Component 2:
The next step is to
use the results of the behavioural assessment to develop an effective plan
that will reduce specific problem behaviours and develop or strengthen cognitive and behavioural skills. Students will learn a variety of behavioural and cognitive behavioural techniques that can be used to change behaviour.
Component 3:
The final phase is an
ongoing evaluation of components one and two.
Students will learn how to measure the effectiveness of their interventions, and continue to refine and revise their interventions based on the results of these measures.
RESEARCH COMPONENT
A foundational aspect of this degree lies with the research component of the program. Students will prepare an Applied Research Proposal prior to conducting their research during the fall internship (September - December) and will be required to write a research thesis prior to graduating. Students will receive faculty support throughout the entire process.
ABAI VERIFIED COURSE SEQUENCE
The Association for Behavior Analysis International has verified the following courses toward the coursework requirements for eligibility to take the Board Certified Behavior Analyst® or Board Certified Assistant Behavior Analyst® examination. Applicants will need to meet additional requirements before they can be deemed eligible to take the examination.
Please view ABAI approved course sequence here.
PREPARING FUTURE LEADERS
In addition to preparing students to be practicing behaviourists, the degree program helps prepare them to become leaders in this emerging field. Not only will students be supported in becoming client-centred clinicians, they will also have the opportunity to learn the skills to advance behaviour analysis from a system-wide perspective, to support large-scale changes in agencies, organizations and government.
Graduates of our Behavioural Science programs are leaders of behavioural treatment in fields as varied as forensic mental health, autism spectrum disorder, and acquired brain injury.
This intensive program, delivered on-site at George Brown's state-of-the-art Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences located at the Waterfront Campus, is suitable for students who are data-driven, enjoy analyzing patterns and like to work with challenging behaviours.
The program's core courses are focused on five areas of learning:
behavioural science theories, principles and methods
special populations
psychology
research methods/statistics
ethics, professionalism and leadership
Your Field Education Options
While classroom theory is a very important part of your learning in this accelerated Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis program, we believe that field placement plays a critical role in solidifying that experience because it lets you practice your skills in a real-world environment.
After successfully completing the bridging semester (January–April) and semester 7 (May–June), you will complete a 14-week field experience term (unpaid) in the fall, during which you will be expected to conduct a research thesis.
Prior to starting the field experience term, a field co-ordinator will help students:
explore their interests
prepare for interviews
facilitate interview meetings by providing feedback
Once students are in their placement settings, they will obtain support from the agency on-site supervisor as well as support from a college faculty field liaison.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
ABA practitioners may find themselves in roles that include the following responsibilities:
assessment of a client's skills
the development and implementation of skill acquisition programs
functional assessment of challenging behaviours
behaviour management plans
data collection and analysis
case management
Their knowledge and skills are applicable to numerous opportunities, which may include such job titles as:
autism spectrum disorders consultant
behaviour technician
behaviour therapist
behavioural consultant
behavioural specialist
instructor therapist
recreational therapist
residential support worker
transition co-ordinator
vocational support worker
Educational Pathways
Graduates of this accelerated Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis program have gone on to earn a master’s degree at the following institutions in these related areas: Applied Behaviour Analysis, Applied Disability Studies, Counselling Psychology.
Brock University – Applied Disability Studies
The Chicago School of Professional Psychology – Applied Behavior Analysis
Missouri State University – Applied Behavior Analysis
Western University – Applied Behaviour Analysis
University of British Columbia – Special Education
Yorkville University – Master of Arts in Counselling Psychology
Graduates of a health sciences program who have an interest in working in long-term care facilities should consider applying to our
Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care (S417) postgraduate certificate
.
(S417) Program Details:
two-semester program
you will learn to coordinate and manage an interprofessional healthcare team of complex and long-term care professionals
delivered online and on-demand to accommodate working professionals
includes a clinical field placement component
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 6
Code
Courses
BEHA 2106
Advanced Research Design and Statistics – currently in computer lab
BEHA 2107
Advanced Assessment Strategies and Behaviour Theory
BEHA 3101
Clinical Behaviour Analysis
BEHA 4002
Behavioural Approaches to Health and Well-Being
Liberal Studies Elective
Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 7
Code
Courses
BEHA 2108
Behavioural Approaches to Education and Psychometrics – (S304) Only
BEHA 4001
Organizational Behaviour Management
BEHA 4003
Service Delivery and Interprofessional Practice
BEHA 4106
Applied Thesis Development Seminar
BEHA 4107
Applied Thesis Project Seminar
Liberal Studies Elective
Fall
BEHA 4000 - Work Experience
14-Week Field Experience Term (UNPAID)
SEMESTER 8
Code
Courses
BEHA 4101
>Consolidation of Behavioural Principles And Practice
BEHA 4102
Advanced Topics in Behavioural Science
BEHA 4103
Leadership in Behaviour Analysis
BEHA 4104
Professional Standards and Practices in Dissemination
BEHA 4105
Thesis(42 hours)
Liberal Studies Elective
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Learn about psychological theory, research and practices.
Design and conduct various assessments across a variety of settings and populations.
Design and implement research-based programs in applied behaviour analysis and evaluate their effectiveness.
Practise behavioural consulting skills with different populations.
Demonstrate appropriate social, professional and clinical skills in the context of an interdisciplinary setting with a variety of clients, their support networks, professionals and the community.
Maintain a high degree of professionalism and ethical standards.
Communicate, orally and in written form, results of behavioural assessments and treatment programs.
Understand, critically evaluate and synthesize issues in society.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,078.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Successful completion of a three-year Behavioural Science Technology advanced diploma program or equivalent, with a minimum program GPA of 3.0
English language proficiency required:
George Brown College ESL Level 9; TOEFL 84 overall and 21 in each skill band (online); IELTS 6.5 overall and 6.0 in each skill band; MELAB 85; CAEL overall 70 (writing 60)
Proficiency in English communications is necessary for success in this program.
Find out more about
English proficiency
requirements.
COURSE EXEMPTIONS
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting July 21, 2015. Renewal of the Ministerial Consent is a cyclical requirement and the College is in its renewal phase. The college shall ensure that all students admitted to the above-named program during the period of consent will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
Special Requirements
PRE-PLACEMENT HEALTH FORM (FOR FOURTH YEAR S304 STUDENTS)
Upon acceptance into this program, students must meet all the mandatory pre-placement health requirements for the program. It may take up to four months to complete all the requirements.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
For further details and to download the mandatory pre-placement health form, go to the
Pre-placement website
.
POLICE VULNERABLE SECTOR CHECK (MUST BE VALID ANNUALLY – FOURTH YEAR S304 STUDENTS)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a Police Vulnerable Sector Check completed, and this check must be renewed annually before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Police Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered "vulnerable persons" under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for "individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s)."
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Police Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a "clear" Police Vulnerable Sector Check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a "not clear" status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the police record check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Pre-placement website
.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
To book an information session, call the
School of Health and Wellness
at 416-415-5000, ext. 4542 between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., or email
Yan Sang
at
yansang.feng@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (S302)
Autism and Behavioural Science (Postgraduate) (C405)
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (Year 3 Bridge) (S303)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.