Honours Bachelor of Food Studies Program (Bridging) (H318)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Food Studies
Code:
H318
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
5 semesters
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$9,957.00 * †
International Tuition:
$20,662.00 ** †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
The Honours Bachelor of Food Studies embraces experiential learning as a key component of the program delivery. Students will have a variety of opportunities to examine activities in the community, take field trips in the surrounding area and complete two 16-hour community-engaged learning placements as part of their coursework.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Not Available
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 6: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) (Bridging) (H316)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
The first four-year Honours Bachelor of Food Studies degree in Canada combining culinary arts and a comprehensive food studies curriculum.
Program Overview
George Brown College offers the first four-year Honours Bachelor of Food Studies degree in Canada. H318 is a bridge pathway into the H317 Honours Bachelor of Food Studies program, specifically designed for graduates of Culinary Management diploma programs. Graduates of these diploma programs may be eligible to enter the third year of the degree upon successful completion of five bridge courses.
Food choices are no longer about what we will have for dinner. Behind those choices are the biggest challenges of our time: How do we address chronic disease, waste, climate change, rapid urbanization, technological change, hunger and inequity? Everyone in the food sector must deal with these challenges and opportunities; this is the world that the next generation of food workers is entering. The Honours Bachelor of Food Studies degree program will bring a new focus on justice and equity, sustainability and health, and a new awareness of how these societal issues can be analyzed and resolved.
Full Description
The food sector is always changing, particularly when it comes to hospitality and culinary arts. This constant change has reinforced the need for a more holistic approach to culinary education – one that allows students to examine the food system while mastering a variety of culinary techniques.
The Honours Bachelor of Food Studies program provides the food leaders of tomorrow with the skills, insights and knowledge to succeed in this rapidly changing field. It offers extensive career pathways for food service professionals while providing the food sector with leaders who can thrive in both for-profit and nonprofit organizations.
Graduates will be positioned to succeed in a wide range of food-related occupations including roles in culinary, education, tourism, recreation, health, food security, sustainability, economic development, agriculture, public policy and research. There are growing opportunities for careers informed by both culinary experience and versatile critical thinking.
Toronto provides a unique setting for this program because of its wealth of multicultural and Indigenous food traditions. In the classroom and beyond, students will be introduced to the vibrant world of food in a culturally diverse and inclusive environment. Students will participate in a paid co-op placement focused on the application of culinary and food animation skills. In addition, throughout the program, selected courses will include community-engaged learning opportunities.
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
The Honours Bachelor of Food Studies opens doors to diverse career pathways in the kitchen and beyond. Completion of this program will demonstrate your commitment to both culinary arts and understanding issues throughout the entire food system, distinguishing you from other chefs. The culinary skills you learn at George Brown are in demand by employers across Canada and internationally, and you will have the training to build a successful career at home and around the world.
While some degree graduates may start their careers in an entry-level position, they will have the knowledge and skills to advance their career pathways. Depending on the graduate’s focus and level of experience, possible career pathways include:
Employment Area
Possible Career Paths
Food services
caterer
executive chef, chef, sous chef, chef de partie
food blogger
food journalist
food product developer
food writer
market researcher
menu designer
sustainability officer
Community and non-profit organizations
campaign coordinator
community chef
community organizer
culinary consultant
farmers’ market coordinator
food justice educator
fundraiser
garden coordinator
grant writer
learning development specialist
outreach coordinator
policy analyst
program coordinator
researcher
urban agriculture coordinator
Government
policy development officer
program coordinator/manager
project coordinator/manager
public health promotions
public health specialist
research analyst
Education
community workshop coordinator
learning garden coordinator
school food program coordinator
Educational Pathways
Graduates of this program will be prepared to continue their studies post-degree in master's programs in the fields of environmental studies, food policy, justice studies, public health, gastronomy, education, community development, communication and media studies.
Graduates may also be eligible for direct entry into the
Culinary Arts – Italian
,
French pastry
programs and the
Food and Nutrition Management
program.
Please contact the program co-ordinator for further information.
Courses
Required Courses
Bridging Semester 4
Course Code
Course Title
HOSF 2310
Food Studies Research Methods
HOSF 2312
Introductory Food Studies
HOSF 2314
Food Literacy & Communications
HOSF 2315
Understanding Food Production
HOSF 2316
Voices for Food Systems Change
YEAR 3
Semester 5
Course Code
Course Title
HOSF 3502
Nutritional Epidemiology and Public Policy
HOSF 3504
Food Policy and Law
HOSF 3506
The Evolving Kitchen
HOSF 3508
Global Food and Beverage History
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 6
Course Code
Course Title
HOSF 3606
Food and the Nonprofit Sector
HOSF 3509
Sustainability in Food Service
HOSF 3607
Sustainable Consumption
HOSF 3608
Canadian Food History and Culture
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
YEAR 4
Semester 7
Course Code
Course Title
HOSF 4702
Global Food Politics
HOSF 4704
Food, Equity and the City
HOSF 4706
Chefs as Agents of Change
HOSF 4708
Capstone I (Food Studies)
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 8
Course Code
Course Title
HOSF 4802
Special Topics in Food Studies
HOSF 4806
Strategies for the Black Box
HOSF 4809
Capstone II (Food Studies)
HOSF 4810
The Future of Food
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
Program Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of this course, students will be able to:
Articulate the interconnected structures and functions of food systems at the local, national and international levels.
Analyze social, cultural, political and environmental influences on current and emerging food-related theory, policy and practice.
Recommend informed responses to both practical and scholarly issues and challenges using insights from food systems theory and the study of global cuisine.
Acquire foundational culinary skill proficiency and operational knowledge appropriate to enter into the culinary industry.
Integrate a healthy, equitable, and sustainable food systems perspective into culinary theory and practice.
Construct coherent arguments to address debates within the broad field of food studies.
Appraise research methodologies used across disciplines related to food studies.
Communicate effectively in a variety of formats appropriate to academic, government, non-profit, business and media environments.
Articulate how uncertainty, ambiguity and limits to knowledge influence perception and interpretation of debates in food studies and consider issues from multiple perspectives.
Demonstrate curiosity, initiative, integrity, collaboration and social responsibility in personal and professional settings related to food.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$9,957.00 * †
International Tuition
$20,662.00 ** †
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Spring
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice.
†
Fees for this program do not include the cost of the co-op work term.
†
Additional Cost
Description
Cost
Uniform
$290
Knives and small wares
$500–$700
Books
$1,600
Black safety shoes
$110-$160
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
The program will be OSAP eligible. Once the new OSAP application is launched by the ministry in the spring, the college will work with the ministry in updating/reviewing/approval of the OSAP application system to include this program.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
This program is a bridge pathway into the Honours Bachelor of Food Studies H318 degree program and is designed for graduates of Culinary Management diploma programs.
Requirements:
A Culinary Management diploma with a program GPA of 2.7 or higher and completion of required certificates (Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR, Smart Serve Certificate, Sanitation Certificate, WHMIS Certificate).
Prospective students with Culinary Credentials outside of Ontario will require Department assessment, which may result in additional courses and completion of certificates (Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR, Smart Serve Certificate, Sanitation Certificate, WHMIS Certificate) in addition to the bridge semester. International and out-of-province applicants who believe they are eligible for this program are invited to contact program coordinators Caitlin Scott (
caitlin.scott@georgebrown.ca
) and Lori Stahlbrand (
lori.stahlbrand@georgebrown.ca
).
The H318 bridge courses (five core courses) take place from May to August. To continue to semester 5 of the program, students must complete the designated bridge pathway and maintain good standing with a minimum 2.3 program GPA (67 per cent or above).
Note:
The bridge for entry into semester 5 (Year 3) of the H317 program comprises five core courses (Food Studies Research Methods, Introductory Food Studies, Food Literacy & Communications, Understanding Food Production, and Voices for Food Systems Change).
NOTE FOR CURRENT GEORGE BROWN STUDENTS:
Note 1:
Current George Brown
DOMESTIC
students in
H100 – Culinary Management
,
H116 - Culinary Management (Integrated Learning)
or
H119 – Culinary Management – Nutrition
programs who wish to apply for H318, are invited to apply on
ontariocolleges.ca
. The admissions office will verify your current standing in the diploma program and process your application accordingly.
Note 2:
Current George Brown
INTERNATIONAL
(VISA) students in
H100 – Culinary Management
,
H116 – Culinary Management (Integrated Learning)
or
H119 – Culinary Management – Nutrition
programs who wish to apply for H318, are invited to apply on the
Online Application System for International Students
. The International admissions office will verify your current standing in the diploma program and process your application accordingly.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country-specific admission requirements.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
HONOURS BACHELOR of FOOD STUDIES – BRIDGING (H318)
For general Chef School inquiries, please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Register for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) (Bridging) (H316)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.