Honours Bachelor of Brand Design Program Bridge (G305)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Brand Design
Code:
G305
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
5 semesters plus 1 Co-op Work Term
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$7,891.00 * †
International Tuition:
$20,194.00 * †
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Design
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 5: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 6: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design (G301)
Design Management (Postgraduate) (G401)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Honours Bachelor of Brand Design (G305)
program is still accepting applicants for Spring 2023.
Click here to check availability for Spring 2023
The
Honours Bachelor of Brand Design
is a four-year degree that produces designers with strengths in collaboration, research, critical and strategic thinking, technical design execution and brand storytelling.
To apply, please
review the application process and guidelines information
.
Full Description
The Honours Bachelor of Brand Design is a four-year degree program that responds to the rapidly changing world of graphic design by preparing you to be a forward-looking brand designer with strengths in collaboration, research, critical and strategic thinking, technical design execution and brand storytelling. This program is built on multidisciplinary pillars of research, critical thinking, strategic brand development, technical design execution and brand storytelling. Brands are more than logos or sales tactics, they are carefully developed relationships between the brand makers and audiences – a brand is a promise to follow through on a purpose and a set of values that taken together express how someone perceives an organization or product. The Honours Bachelor of Brand Design degree is an opportunity for you to connect to a knowledgeable creative community of collaborators. You will become a strategic designer who can bridge business strategy, technology and the design world in order to produce innovative brand experiences. As a graduate of this program, you will have the analytical and technical skills to:
Communicate
and evolve the brand through the design of visual and physical, online and offline identities and experiences.
Research
to create and tailor designs that work across different touchpoints, generating dynamic, responsive, multisensory and personalized brand experiences for customers.
Write
, visualize and translate the brand story across these touchpoints and engage long-term with the emotions of audiences.
Collaborate
toward creative innovation with multidisciplinary teams.
This program responds to the dynamic and growing field of design, training you to:
Create streamlined brand messaging across numerous mediums and touchpoints that engage audiences.
Understand new technology and be able to work across the old and new channels.
Have strong writing skills and adapt to different situations, audiences and genres.
Be flexible in that you are able to adapt to changing work and work environments (multiple sectors, services and products).
Work collaboratively and bridge business and creative roles by understanding the culture, processes and language of the branding business.
Utilize diverse and quantifiable research methodologies in the design process.
Offer a diverse and customizable range of services to clients, particularly niche services (e.g., video and animation).
Have the ability to compete on tender: put together a professional sales pitch while offering a competitive price.
Advanced Entry Pathway:
Graduates and students currently in year two or three of George Brown College’s three-year
Graphic Design (G102)
advanced diploma may be eligible for advanced entry into the Honours Bachelor of Brand Design program. Following the winter semester (January–April), students who have successfully completed the second year of the George Brown College Graphic Design (G102) advanced diploma with a
GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent)
or higher, or have graduated from the program with a
GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent)
or higher, will be eligible to complete a summer bridge program. Upon successful completion of the bridge, students will enter into semester 5 of the degree program in the fall.
Program Structure
Option A:
Two years completed of Graphic Design+ Bridge (three courses + two Liberal Studies electives) + two years of Degree (18 courses plus 420 hours of co-op) = Honours Bachelor of Brand Design.
Option B:
Three years completed of Graphic Design+ Bridge (three courses + two liberal studies electives)+ two years of Degree (18 courses plus 420 hours of co-op) = Graphic Design advanced diploma PLUS Honours Bachelor of Brand Design.
Your Field Education Options
Students must complete a 420-hour paid co-op work term in the spring/summer period between the third and fourth year.
Students have the opportunity to complete this co-op domestically and/or internationally, as opportunities arise. The majority of co-op work terms are completed in the Greater Toronto Area, where the design sector is robust and the majority of interaction jobs are located.
The School of Design Field Placement team works with many notable training partners, including agencies such as Publicis, K9 Strategy + Design, Trevor/Peter and Relish Interactive; larger, well-known brands such as Nelvana (Corus Entertainment), Rogers Media, Mozilla, Crayola and PUR Gum; and a variety of industry-relevant arts and design institutions, including the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF), the Association of Registered Graphic Designers (RGD) and Applied Arts.
The work term allows students to apply the skills, abilities and knowledge they've acquired in the program in a workplace environment or through an appropriate interaction design research project or initiative. Students gain valuable experience and the opportunity to reflect on the application of previous learning. A faculty member evaluates the student based on feedback provided by the employer.
Students will develop a digital portfolio demonstrating artifacts completed during the co-op work term.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program will have acquired the skills necessary to be employed in design, branding and digital media studios, creative labs, in-house design and digital departments within larger corporations across sectors, or to work independently or in a start-up.
This program prepares graduates for positions such as:
brand designer
digital designer
user interface designer
design strategist
community manager
graphic designer
design researcher
storyteller/content writer
communications officer
marketing researcher
communication designer
content strategist
Graduates will be trained for work that spans several occupational areas in advertising, marketing and public relations, as graphic designers and illustrators, content writers and web producers, communications specialists, marketing researchers and business and strategy consultants.
Educational Pathways
Graduates of the Honours Bachelor of Brand Design program may qualify to pursue further graduate studies in relevant program areas. Students should contact universities directly to explore graduate school opportunities.
Graduates and students currently in year two or three of George Brown College’s three-year
Graphic Design (G102)
advanced diploma may be eligible for advanced entry into the Honours Bachelor of Brand Design program. Following the winter semester (January–April), students who have successfully completed the second year of the George Brown College Graphic Design (G102) advanced diploma with a
GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent)
or higher, or have graduated from the program with a
GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent)
or higher, will be eligible to complete a summer bridge program. Upon successful completion of the bridge, students will enter into semester 5 of the degree program in the fall.
Program Structure
Option A:
Two years completed of Graphic Design + Bridge (three courses + two Liberal Studies electives)+ two years of degree (18 courses plus 420 hours of co-op) = Honours Bachelor of Brand Design.
Option B:
Three years completed of Graphic Design + Bridge (three courses + two liberal studies electives) + two years of degree (18 courses plus 420 hours of co-op) = Graphic Design advanced diploma PLUS Honours Bachelor of Brand Design.
Courses
Required Courses
Bridging Courses, Semester 4
Required bridge courses to be completed in the summer term:
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
BDES 2409
Introduction to Brand Studies and Strategy
NONE
BDES 2410
Brand Studies Research Preparation
NONE
BDES 2414
Brand Writing
NONE
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
Bridging students will need to complete two non-core liberal studies elective courses, at least one of which should be taken during the bridging semester.
Semester 5
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
BDES 3516
Brand Strategy 2: Brand Resilience
BDES 2304 BDES 2405
BDES 3517
Research for Design 3: Data Collection and Analysis
BDES 2405 BDES 2304
BDES 3518
Design Studio 5: UX/UI Branded Experiences
BDES 2406
BDES 3519
Design Studio 6: 3D Branded Environments
BDES 2305
Lower Level Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 6
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
BDES 3606
Brand Consumption in a Global Economy
BDES 2404 BDES 3517 BDES 3516
BDES 3607
Research for Design 4: Systems and Services
BDES 3517 BDES 3518 BDES 3519
BDES 3608
Design Studio 7: Identity Design
BDES 3518 BDES 3519
BDES 3609
The Business of Design: Professional Practice
NONE
Upper Level Liberal Studies Elective
Summer between Years 3 and 4
Code
Course Name
GCOP 1001
Work-Integrated Learning Co-Op
Semester 7
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
BDES 4703
Brand Strategy 3: Future Brand
BDES 3516
BDES 4705
Special Topics: Design for Social Good
BDES 3607
BDES 4706
Senior Project I: Thesis Preparation
BDES 4703 BDES 3608
Upper Level Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 8
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
BDES 4802
Intellectual Property
BDES 3517
BDES 4703
BDES 3606
BDES 4803
Senior Project II: Thesis Development and Production
BDES 4706
BDES 4805
Cross Platform Brand Narrative
BDES 2408
Upper Level Liberal Studies Elective
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Use ideation techniques to generate innovative design solutions that respond to a creative brief.
Participate in a collaborative brand-building project to produce an outcome that meets the needs of the client.
Incorporate interdisciplinary theoretical approaches in the planning, production and critique of design and strategy work.
Plan, conduct and apply research in order to contextualize and make informed design.
Assess the social, environmental and economic impact of the design solution in order to prioritize sustainability issues in design practice.
Use the fundamental principles of branding to address the needs of the brand design and strategy for clients of various scale.
Design solutions in support of a brand strategy.
Communicate information, arguments, creative ideas and brand stories persuasively, to a range of audiences, using a variety of verbal, visual and written communication techniques.
Utilize professional practices and knowledge of the business of branding in all design and strategy work.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,891.00 * †
International Tuition
$20,194.00 * †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
† Fees for this program do not include the $500 cost of the work-integrated learning or co-op work term.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Application Process and Guidelines
Step 1
Determine if you are eligible to enter George Brown College’s Honours Bachelor of Brand Design program.
Only graduates, and second- and third-year students of the (three-year) advanced diploma in Graphic Design (G102) will be considered for this program.
Current students must have a program GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent) or above from their diploma program. Former students must have graduated with a program GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent) or above from their diploma program, and have graduated in the last three years.
Step 2
There is no need to apply via the Ontario Colleges Application Service (OCAS). To apply to the bridge program, contact Kristine Do at
Kristine.Do@georgebrown.ca
expressing interest in transferring from Graphic Design to Brand Design (for current students).
Step 3
An application form will be sent to you in March. Our admissions office will confirm your eligibility and will register you for the summer bridge courses.
This college has been granted consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting March 6, 2020. The college shall ensure that all students admitted to the above-named program during the period of consent will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Note:
Offers will be conditional on the basis of completing the term with an overall
GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent)
(or having graduated with said GPA in the last three years).
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Design
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 3129
Email:
design@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is part of our School of Design, located at our Waterfront Campus, at 3 Lower Jarvis St., Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
School of Design Building
The School of Design resides in a new 103,000-square-foot facility in the Daniels Waterfront – City of the Arts development. This state-of-the-art building supports academic programs and industry projects with features such as:
virtual and augmented reality lab
usability and testing lab
Future Ways of Living lab
peer tutor lab
digital sandbox
incubators
prototyping and workshop spaces
design and innovation showcase spaces
Come and have your questions answered, learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom at one of our
information sessions
. You can also
book a campus tour
.
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design (G301)
Design Management (Postgraduate) (G401)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.