Honours Bachelor of Business Administration Program (Hospitality) (Fast-Track) (H312)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration
Code:
H312
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
5 semesters* plus 1 co-op term
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$8,684.00 * † ‡
International Tuition:
$20,217.00 ** † ‡
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Hospitality & Tourism Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Co-op (paid)
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 5: Hybrid; Semester 7: Online
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 6, 8: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) (H311)
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Do you want to become an entrepreneur in the Hospitality sector? Experience small class sizes to enrich your learning experience in addition to a location in the heart of the hospitality industry. The Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) develops exceptional decision-making and problem-solving skills. We prepare hospitality business leaders and owners to thrive in a complex and dynamic industry and combine experiential learning through four-month paid terms working full-time in the industry.
Full Description
This fast-track program
is designed for students with a
two-year Hospitality diploma
or
degree in a related field
wishing to pursue a degree in business focusing on hospitality.
Qualified applicants who have completed one of the following diploma programs may be eligible:
Food and Beverage Management (H132)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Special Events Management (H141)
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) (Fast-Track)
students will complete a bridging semester from May to August and then go on to complete all outstanding credits toward their degree. This pathway will give students an opportunity to earn a degree credential in two additional years, plus the one summer semester, or more, depending on the total transferable credits granted (please see "How to Qualify" and "Apply" section for specific admission requirements).
The program is designed to teach you how to plan and manage complex integrated hospitality operations so that you can become one of the skilled, knowledgeable leaders the hospitality sector is pursuing. The employment prospects in this sector are outstanding. In Canada, the hospitality industry employs more than 1.2 million people, representing over 7 per cent of all employment
1
. In the Greater Toronto Area alone, the hospitality sector accounts for almost 329,000 jobs
2
.
A Comprehensive Curriculum
The curriculum has been developed to prepare students for management, supervisory and administrative careers through training in analysis and problem-solving, critical thinking, integrated operations, customer management and international applications. Students will become technically proficient in the major components of a hospitality business, including operational processes, finance, human resources, facilities, risk management, research, sustainability and corporate social responsibility.
In addition, the curriculum is designed to:
Provide flexible student learning. Courses are offered in online and in-class hybrid format throughout the program to accommodate the paid work placements. Semester 7 is delivered completely online.
Integrate knowledge and practical applications developed through projects and experiential learning in two paid work placements.
Build strong management abilities, with every student working on projects individually and with team members.
Applied Learning – Benefit from Hands-on Training
Co-operative education is an important component of this degree program. Students spend two paid summer terms working full-time in the industry, giving them a chance to apply the knowledge they have acquired in a real-life, hands-on situation. Students obtain practical experience and further develop their skills – an asset for our graduates and their future employers. Students also establish valuable contacts with potential employers, and many graduates find full-time employment with their co-op employer.
1
https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=1410002301
2
https://www.toronto.ca/city-government/data-research-maps/toronto-at-a-glance/
Your Field Education Options
Students spend one paid term working full-time in the industry, giving them a chance to apply the knowledge they have acquired in a real-life, hands-on situation.
George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the program's learning outcomes. This valuable work experience can be added to your resumé.
In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide learning opportunities with real-world challenges and customers.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of our Honours Hospitality Degree program can pursue a wide range of career opportunities across the hospitality sector. Many of our graduates are hired for supervisory and managerial positions soon after graduation with starting salaries as high as $50,000, depending on experience, position and employer.
There are many career opportunities awaiting you in the diverse sectors of the hospitality industry:
accommodations (hotels, motels, resorts)
assembly and event management (meetings, conventions, expositions, special events)
food service (restaurants, catering, clubs and managed services)
sports and recreation (attractions, gaming, parks, recreation)
travel (airlines, cruise ships, railways, bus coach, ecotourism)
Educational Pathways
Graduates of the Hospitality degree program have pursued advanced degrees with our partner universities, IMI and Manchester University as well as institutions such as the University of Guelph, Ryerson University, University of Waterloo, Royal Roads University and Queen's University. Acceptance to graduate studies is subject to institutions' admission criteria and entry requirements.
Graduates of the program can also continue their studies by pursuing a master's degree or post-graduate education.
Courses
Required Courses
YEAR 2
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
HOST 2135
Bridging 1
HOST 2137
Bridging 2
BBUS 1006
Microeconomics: Canada in a Global Environment
BBUS 1007
Macroeconomics: Canada in a Global Environment
ELECTIVE
Liberal Studies Elective
YEAR 3
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
HOST 2113
Financial Management
HOST 3102
Consumer Behaviour
HOST 3119
Decision-Making
COMM 2201
Intercultural Communications
LHUM 1204
Spanish I
OR
LHUM 1224
Mandarin I
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
HOST 3113
Strategic Revenue Management
HOST 4111
Competitive Strategy for Integrated Hospitality Enterprises
STAT 1202
Statistics
LHUM 1214
Spanish II
OR
LHUM 1225
Mandarin II
ELECTIVE
Liberal Studies Elective
WORK EXPERIENCE
Code
Course Name
HCOP 2001
Co-op Work Term (14 weeks, 520hrs)
YEAR 4
SEMESTER 7
Code
Course Name
HOST 4101
Research: Concepts and Application I
HOST 4104
Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility
HOST 4007
Innovation and Creativity
HOST 3117
Sales Management
ELECTIVE
Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 8
Code
Course Name
HOST 4102
New Venture Development
HOST 4103
E-Hospitality
HOST 4112
Research: Concept and Application II
HOST 4113
Cases in Global Business Management
HOST 4117
Managing Uncertainty: Enterprise Risk Management*
HOST 4118
Managing Uncertainty: Crisis Management*
* seven-week courses
Detailed Course Outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Assess the impact and implications of external environmental factors on the hospitality industry, its sectors, organizations and stakeholders.
Explain the results of original research that has been conducted using social science research principles and methods.
Apply management knowledge and technical ability for effective operation and organization of a variety of hospitality enterprises.
Justify ideas generated, decisions made and actions taken to address business opportunities, challenges, risks and crises.
Interpret quantitative and qualitative data to support business decisions, operations and strategic initiatives.
Present information clearly, concisely, persuasively, professionally and respectfully using appropriate and alternative modes/means of communication in a variety of hospitality contexts and situations.
Display ethical behaviour and social responsibility in personal and professional pursuits.
Design creative marketing, sales and customer service strategies for chosen market segments.
Apply strategies to keep current in the field, to respond effectively to change and to support personal and professional development.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$8,684.00 * † ‡
International Tuition
$20,217.00 ** † ‡
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Spring
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice.
† Fees for this program do not include the cost of the co-op work term.
‡ Additional Cost
Textbooks, manuals, etc. – $575 (fees are subject to change).
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants with a two-year Hospitality diploma from George Brown College
program GPA of 2.7 or higher
a grade of B or higher in the courses that will be transferred for credit
Please note:
Students who complete the H312 bridging semester and who have a 2.7 GPA or higher in any George Brown College hospitality diploma program will receive credit for the first two years of the Honours Bachelor of Business Administration degree program. Credits are not assessed on a course by course basis.
Please note that the final advanced standing status will be determined by the academic division.
English language proficiency required
George Brown College ESL Level 9; TOEFL 84 overall and 21 in each skill band (online); IELTS 6.5 overall and 6.0 in each skill band; MELAB 85; CAEL overall 70 (writing 60).
Please visit
English Proficiency page
for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven–year term starting December 19, 2019. The college shall ensure that all students admitted to the above-named program during the period of consent will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens, including nuts, dairy and shellfish, are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to Halal and Kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic Students
Current George Brown domestic students in
H130 – Tourism and Hospitality Management
;
H141 – Event Planning Program;
H132 – Food and Beverage Management – Restaurant Management
;
H133 – Hotel Operations Management
programs who wish to apply for H312, are invited to apply on
ontariocolleges.ca
. The admissions office will verify your current standing in the diploma program, and process your application accordingly.
International Students (Visa)
Current George Brown international (visa) students in
H130 – Tourism and Hospitality Management
;
H141 – Event Planning Program;
H132 – Food and Beverage Management – Restaurant Management
;
H133 – Hotel Operations Management
programs who wish to apply for H312, are invited to apply on the
Online Application System for International Students
. The International admissions office will verify your current standing in the diploma program, and process your application accordingly.
Applicants with a Hospitality diploma from another post-secondary institution
two-year Hospitality diploma
program GPA of 2.7 or higher
a Grade of B or higher in the courses that will be transferred for credit
Please note:
The credits that remain to be completed in order to achieve the H312 Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) (fast-track) degree will be assessed on an individual basis, in consultation with a program coordinator.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) (fast-track) (H312)
For general School of Hospitality and Tourism Management–related inquiries, please contact
chcastudentsupport@georgebrown.ca.
For additional information about George Brown College (including admissions, financial assistance or fee payment enquiries), please call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) (H311)
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
"My learning experience at George Brown College has led me to new heights in my career. One of the many key attributes to my learning experience was the co-op opportunities the college has to offer in collaboration with their industry partners. I embraced the opportunity to have two co-op placements throughout my degree and both co-op opportunities further enhanced the learning experience and made it easy to get exposure to the real-life workforce.
"The faculty members at the college do not only educate but they mentor students. I can think of a number of situations in which faculty provided invaluable advice and knowledge on leadership, career advancement and industry trends. All of this support has continued to help grow my resume and personality."
Audrius Valiulis
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.