Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design Program Year 3 Bridge (G302)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design
Code:
G302
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
5 semesters plus 1 co-op work term
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$8,032.00* †
International Tuition:
$20,125.00* †
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Design
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Co-op (paid)
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 5, 7: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 6, 8: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Opening Soon
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Brand Design (G304)
Interactive Media Management (Postgraduate) (G412)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design is a four-year degree that produces designers who can solve problems using human-centred, socially conscious and economically viable digital solutions.
Full Description
The Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design is a four-year degree that produces designers who can solve problems using human-centred, socially conscious and economically viable digital solutions.
In this program, you will develop the ability to critically analyze and adapt to ever-changing conditions of technology and culture. Foundational courses build your analytical, technical and business skills. In upper-year courses and capstone projects, you will collaborate on digital interfaces and applications, as well as interactive environments and objects.
The curriculum focuses on three areas of learning based on the digital experience design process:
Think:
design thinking, theory, culture and research.
Make
: designing, building and testing digital experiences.
Ship
: entrepreneurship and the commercialization of digital products.
Digital experience design includes related fields such as service design, user experience design, and interaction design. It involves understanding human behaviour and human computer interaction, conducting research and usability studies, managing projects and working in teams, applying business skills, working with existing and emerging digital technologies, prototyping new ideas and anticipating future trends.
Interactive Digital Media is a growing industry that is quickly changing, driven by shifts in consumer behaviour and technology. Graduates of this program will be able to contribute to and eventually lead interdisciplinary teams to solve problems across a variety of fields such as security, transportation, education and manufacturing. The degree also prepares you to pursue graduate studies in a wide range of academic disciplines.
Pathway Options
Students currently in year two or three of George Brown College’s existing three-year Interaction Design advanced diploma may be eligible for advanced entry into the Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design program.
Following the Winter semester (January–April), students who have successfully completed the second year of the George Brown College Interaction Design (G103/G113) advanced diploma with a
GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent)
or higher, or have graduated from the program with a
GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent)
or higher, will be eligible to complete a summer bridge program. Upon successful completion of the bridge, students will enter into semester 5 of the degree program in the Fall.
Option A:
Two years completed of Interaction Design.
+ Bridge (three courses + two Liberal Studies electives)
+ Two years of degree (18 courses plus 420 hours of co-op)
= Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design
Option B:
Three years completed of Interaction Design.
+ Bridge (three courses + two Liberal Studies electives)
+ Two years of degree (18 courses plus 420 hours of co-op)
= Interaction Design and Development Advanced Diploma
PLUS
Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design
Your Field Education Options
Students must complete a 420-hour paid co-op work term in the spring/summer period between the third and fourth year.
Students have the opportunity to complete this co-op domestically and/or internationally, as opportunities arise. The majority of co-op work terms are completed in the Greater Toronto Area, where the design sector is robust and the majority of interaction jobs are located.
The School of Design Field Placement team works with many notable training partners, including agencies such as Publicis, K9 Strategy + Design, Trevor/Peter and Relish Interactive; larger, well-known brands such as Nelvana (Corus Entertainment), Rogers Media, Mozilla, Crayola and PUR Gum; and a variety of industry-relevant arts and design institutions, including the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF), the Association of Registered Graphic Designers (RGD) and Applied Arts.
The work term allows students to apply the skills, abilities and knowledge they've acquired in the program in a workplace environment or through an appropriate interaction design research project or initiative. Students gain valuable experience and the opportunity to reflect on the application of previous learning. A faculty member evaluates the student based on feedback provided by the employer.
Students will develop a digital portfolio of design artifacts completed during the co-op work term.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program will have acquired the skills necessary to be employed in design and digital media studios, creative labs, in-house design and digital departments within larger corporations across sectors, or to work independently or in a start-up.
This program prepares graduates for positions such as:
digital experience designer
user experience designer
user interface designer
human interface designer
interaction designer
information architect
digital designer
digital product designer
visual designer
mobile designer
web designer
user experience researcher
usability tester
entrepreneur
Industry
Digital Experience Design
Digital Experience Design embeds and influences human experience through novel and interactive forms of digital technology, combining hardware, software and design. The term “experience” refers to the multifaceted interaction between humans and technology that respects the contextual and situational features of each. The future of digital design lies in understanding this interaction.
Digital Experience Design is gaining currency in the field of research and practice. IDEO, a prominent global design consultancy, lists “Digital Experiences” as one of their core areas of expertise. IDEO sees “Digital Experiences” as those in which there are no boundaries among platforms. They use hardware, software, web and mobile elements, and interactive media to develop effective means for people to share, create and communicate. Thus, Digital Experience Design is a dynamic field, continually adapting to new technologies and interfaces, such as smart devices, sensors, adaptive architectures, mixed realities (AR/VR), immersive environments, multiscreen and multisensorial displays. Digital experience design is revolutionizing how organizations serve customers and how we interact with each other and the world around us.
Interactive Digital Media (IDM)
The Canadian Interactive Alliance defines interactive digital media companies as creators of “digital content and environments that provide users with a rich interactive experience – either with content itself or with other users – for the purposes of entertainment, information, or education, or that provides services that directly enable these products/services” (
2012 Canadian Interactive Industry Profile
). IDM in Canada is a growing industry that is quickly changing, driven by shifts in consumer behaviour and technology. The comprehensive IDM sector includes companies that produce interactive content as well as firms that provide various types of products or services to enable the production of interactive content. These are sometimes called “core” and “peripheral” IDM. Core IDM content includes but is not limited to video and mobile games, cross-platform entertainment, web series, e-learning and training products (Interactive Digital Media, OMDC).
The Greater Toronto Area (GTA) leads North America in offering a diverse, talented pool of interactive digital media workers. The GTA has 15,000 technology companies employing more than 168,000 people, making Toronto Canada’s largest technology hub and the third largest North American centre for technology firms, in addition to being the third largest centre for design on the continent.
Educational Pathways
Students currently in year two or three of George Brown College’s existing three-year Interaction Design Advanced Diploma may be eligible for advanced entry into the Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design program.
Following the winter semester (January–April), students who have successfully completed the second year of the George Brown College Interaction Design (G103/G113) advanced diploma with a
GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent)
or higher, or have graduated from the program with a
GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent)
or higher, will be eligible to complete a Summer bridge program. Upon successful completion of the bridge, students will enter into semester 5 of the degree program in the fall.
Option A:
Two years completed of Interaction Design
+ Bridge (three courses + two liberal studies electives)
+ Two years of degree (18 courses plus 420 hours of co-op)
= Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design
Option B:
Three years completed of Interaction Design.
+ Bridge (three courses + two Liberal Studies electives)
+ Two years of degree (18 courses plus 420 hours of co-op)
= Interaction Design and Development Advanced Diploma
PLUS
Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design
For more information, contact
digitalexperience@georgebrown.ca
, or call 416-415-5000, ext. 3129.
Graduates of the Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design program may qualify to pursue further graduate studies in relevant program areas. Students should contact universities directly to explore graduate school opportunities.
Examples of potential graduate study and research areas include: design, interaction design, digital/interactive media, digital experience, human computer interaction, systems design, e-health, e-learning, game design, interactive arts and critical practice.
Courses
Required Courses
Bridge Courses, Semester 4
Required bridge courses to be completed in the summer term:
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
BDES 2411
Interaction Design Theory and Practice
NONE
BDES 2412
Historical and Theoretical Frameworks for Digital Experience Design
NONE
BDES 2413
Research in Digital Experience Design
NONE
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
Bridging students will need to complete two non-core liberal studies elective courses, at least
one of which should be taken during the bridging semester.
Year 3, Semester 5
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
BDES 3503
Advanced Human Computer Interaction Methods
BDES 1203 or BDES 2412
BDES 3505
Professional Practice in Digital Experience Design
NONE
BDES 3500
Computing 3: Data Integration and Development
BDES 2402 or BDES 2411
BDES 3510
Special Topic 1: Augmented Reality
NONE
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 6
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
BDES 3502
Entrepreneurship for Digital Design
NONE
BDES 3600
Design Jam
NONE
BDES 3601
Digital Media Studies
BDES 1201
BDES 3603
Transmedia (Cross-Channel)
BDES 2400 BDES 3500
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
Summer between Years 3 and 4
Code
Course Name
GCOP 1001
Work-Integrated Learning of 420 hours (Co-op)
Year 4, Semester 7
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
BDES 4701
Major Project 1: Research and Conceptualization
NONE
BDES 4702
Trends in Digital Experience Design
BDES 3601
BDES 4704
Special Topic 2: MUSH sector
NONE
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 8
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
BDES 4800
Commercialization
BDES 3602
BDES 4801
Major Project 2: Development and Production
BDES 4701
BDES 4804
Special Topic 3: Internet of Things
NONE
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Integrate digital experience design theories and methodologies to solve real-life problems and address societal issues.
Explain the relationships between digital interactive experiences and products and other fields of practice and study.
Provide human-centred and research-based solutions and design opportunities across sectors.
Determine the usability of interactive systems to optimize the performance of a product or service.
Incorporate key theoretical concepts of design to inform the planning, production and critique of interactive digital experiences.
Develop applications based on trends in digital experience design.
Incorporate relevant technological systems in the process of developing digital experiences.
Use human-centred design principles to develop and test digital products, systems and services to enhance the aesthetic and functional experience.
Select the appropriate tools that allow for designing, building, visualizing and programming digital interactive experiences.
Create interactive products, systems and services using appropriate technologies, materials and manufacturing methods.
Collaborate with and lead interdisciplinary design teams and stakeholders in the process of designing a product or service.
Manage a design project by applying business, legal and ethical principles.
Conceive of economically viable projects with accompanying business models.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$8,032.00* †
International Tuition
$20,125.00* †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
† Fees for this program do not include the $500 cost of the co-op work term.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Application Process and Guidelines
Step 1
Determine if you are eligible to enter George Brown College’s Honours Bachelor of Digital Experience Design program.
Only graduates, and second- and third-year students of the (three-year) advanced diploma in Interaction Design (G103/G113) will be considered for this program.
Current students must have a program
GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent)
or above from their diploma program.
Former students must have graduated with a program
GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent)
or above from their diploma program, and have graduated in the last three years.
Step 2
There is no need to apply via the Ontario Colleges Application Service (OCAS). To apply to the bridge program, contact program co-ordinator Nastaran Dadashi at
Nastaran.Dadashi@georgebrown.ca,
expressing interest in transferring from Interaction Design to Digital Experience Design for Fall 2023.
Step 3
An application form will be sent to you in March. Our admissions office will confirm your eligibility and will register you for the summer bridge courses.
This college has been granted consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting September 1, 2017. The college shall ensure that all students admitted to the above-named program during the period of consent will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Note
: Offers will be conditional on the basis of completing the term with an overall GPA of 3.2 (75 per cent) or having graduated with said GPA in the last three years.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Participate in an online information session or visit in person. Register for an
information session or open house
here.
School of Design
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 3129
Email:
digitalexperience@georgebrown.ca
For more information about the program, you may also contact the Program Co-ordinator,
Nastaran Dadashi:
nastaran.dadashi@georgebrown.ca.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is part of our
School of Design
, located at our
Waterfront Campus
, at
3 Lower Jarvis St.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
School of Design Building
The School of Design resides in a new 103,000-square-foot facility in the Daniels Waterfront – City of the Arts development. This state-of-the-art building supports academic programs and industry projects with features such as:
virtual and augmented reality lab
usability and testing lab
Future Ways of Living lab
peer tutor lab
digital sandbox
incubators
prototyping and workshop spaces
design and innovation showcase spaces
Have your questions answered, learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom at one of our
information sessions
. You can also
book a campus tour.
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Brand Design (G304)
Interactive Media Management (Postgraduate) (G412)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.