Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management Program (H133)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management
Code:
H133
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,459.00 * †
International Tuition:
$18,364.00 ** †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Hospitality & Tourism Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing, and that is why we have incorporated work-integrated learning opportunities into all CHCA programs.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3, 4: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Open
Closed
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Event Planning (H141)
Food and Beverage Management – Restaurant Management (H132)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Located in the heart of downtown Toronto, George Brown puts you at the centre of the hospitality industry in Canada. If you would like to become a part of the vibrant global hotel industry, the two-year Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management diploma program will provide you with the knowledge and skills needed to launch a successful career.
Full Description
Our Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management program exposes you to current and best practices in:
front office
food and beverage
marketing and sales
conferences and event planning
retirement homes
branded residences
country clubs
You will receive industry certification in food safety, responsible alcohol beverage service and first aid (CPR).
As part of your fourth semester, you will complete a 14-week industry externship. George Brown College works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed hotel operations work experience opportunities that they believe will provide the learning experiences they value, and that meet the learning outcomes of the program. This opportunity will enhance your knowledge with real-world experience and help you start building your network of industry contacts. In addition, you will participate in a hotel operations management simulation as part of your final capstone project, which will allow you to apply your newly acquired skills and learning.
To better hone your international hotel management skills, you have the option of participating in an exclusive European Study Tour visiting some of the top hotels in Europe.
Your Field Education Options
As part of your fourth semester, you will complete a 14-week industry externship with your choice of a nationwide or international placement. This opportunity will enhance your knowledge with real-world experience and help you start building your network of contacts. Hotel Operations Management program will make you the kind of multitalented graduate the local and international hotel industry is seeking in today’s competitive environment.
Graduates gain the skills required to be progressive leaders within the industry, enriching the experience of hotel guests. You will receive industry certifications in food safety, responsible alcohol beverage service and first aid (CPR).
This program allows you to switch into any of our hospitality and tourism management programs by your second year, should your hospitality area of interest change. As well, we know life can be full of unexpected events; should you not be able to complete your final year of study, our common first year model makes you eligible to graduate with a one-year certificate in
Hospitality Services (H101)
.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
With more than 38,000 hotel rooms and over 200 hotels in Toronto – and counting – employment opportunities abound. Many of our graduates now work in supervisory and management positions in major hotels nationwide and internationally, while some have reached high-level corporate positions in large hotel chains. You can also explore a wealth of management career opportunities in restaurants, casinos, luxury retirement homes, cruise ships, convention centres, entertainment complexes, clubs, bed and breakfasts, catering companies and conference services.
Educational Pathways
Earn a diploma and a bachelor’s degree. Qualified graduates of our Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management program may be eligible to enter the
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality)
degree program at George Brown College as an advanced standing student in September or January. You may also choose to start in the spring bridging semester from May to August, continuing into the degree program in September. This educational path requires a minimum grade point average of 2.7 to qualify. Talk to a program coordinator about articulation options.
For further information, see
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
HOST1085
Principles of Hospitality and Tourism Management
HOSF1171
Global Accommodation Industry
HOST1172
Introduction to Wines and Beverages
HOST1170
Introduction to Catering
HOST1146
Leading, Following and Speaking with Confidence
COMM2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH1250
Introduction to Management Numeracy with Excel Applications
HOST1068
Smart Serve (online certificate)
HOSF1145
Sanitation (online certificate)
HOSF1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
HOST1174
Remarkable Restaurant Service – An Introduction to the Industry
HOST1043
Special Events Planning and Delivery
HOST1173
Hospitality Marketing and Social Media
HOST1160
Career Preparation
HOST1175
Global Tourism Geography*
HRM1015
Human Resources Management*
LAW1017
Introduction to Hospitality Law*
ACCT1048
Hospitality Accounting*
GSCI1035
Science of Sustainability
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
ACCT2017
Managerial Accounting
HOST1150
Food and Beverage Cost Control
HOST1193
Strategic Revenue Management
HOSF1095
Front Office Operations
HOST2036
Housekeeping and Facilities Management
HOST1192
Retirement Community Management*
HOST1066
Mixology*
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
HOST2084
Hotel Investment Capstone Project (online)
HOST2133
Industry Externship
GNED
General Education Elective
* seven-week courses
** Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication). COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Support an industry and workplace service culture by adopting a positive attitude and professional decorum, accommodating diverse and special needs and contributing as a team member.
Deliver customer service and solutions that anticipate, meet and/or exceed individual expectations, as well as organizational expectations, standards and objectives.
Use marketing concepts, market research, social networks, sales and revenue management strategies, relationship management skills and product knowledge to promote and sell hospitality services, products and guest experiences.
Apply business and revenue models as well as basic accounting, budgeting, financial and administration skills to support the effective management and operation of a variety of organizations delivering hospitality services and products.
Comply with relevant organization and workplace systems, processes, policies, standards, legal obligations and regulations, and apply risk management principles, to support and maintain efficient, safe, secure, accessible and healthy hospitality operations.
Use appropriate technologies to enhance the quality and delivery of hospitality services, products and guest experiences and to measure the effectiveness of hospitality operations.
Keep current with hospitality trends and issues, and interdependent relationships in the broader tourism industry sectors to improve work performance and guide career development.
Use leadership, teamwork, conflict and relationship management skills and tools, as well as knowledge of organizational behaviour, labour relations, employment standards and human rights to contribute to a positive work environment.
Respond to issues and dilemmas arising in the delivery of hospitality services, products and guest experiences by using and promoting ethical behaviour and best practices of corporate social responsibility and environmental sustainability.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,459.00 * †
International Tuition
$18,364.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
† Additional costs:
Textbooks, manuals, etc. – $575 (fees are subject to change).
Included in material fees is a uniform; black pants, grey Oxford shirt and a bib apron, as well as a professional bar kit.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
Grade 12 English (C or U)
Applicants may also qualify for admission through completion of the Hospitality Services (Pre-Hospitality) program (H101). There are a limited number of seats available and admission is not guaranteed.
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens, including nuts, dairy and shellfish, are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
Hospitality-Hotel Operations Management (H133)
For general School of Hospitality and Tourism Management—related inquiries, please contact
chcastudentsupport@georgebrown.ca.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Event Planning (H141)
Food and Beverage Management – Restaurant Management (H132)
"I was so impressed with the friendly professionalism of all the instructors at George Brown College. It was obvious the instructors loved what they do and also loved the industry that they came from. The stories and anecdotes got me very excited about my career. I now have similar exciting stories to tell!"
Don C. Lafleur
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.