Hospitality Services Program (H101)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Hospitality Services
Code:
H101
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,378.00 * †
International Tuition:
$18,566.00 ** †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Hospitality & Tourism Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Event Planning (H141)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This one-year Hospitality Services Certificate is career-focused and comes with a range of future study opportunities and, alternatively, enables entry to the industry. This program will provide students with the fundamental skills to provide exceptional service to global customers in the field of hospitality and tourism. This certificate program provides broad exposure to the many segments across the hospitality and tourism industry, it assists those with hospitality experience to build their skills for the Canadian workplace and it prepares them to advance their academics with a pathway for entry into two-year diploma programs in our School of Hospitality and Tourism Management. This program is closely linked to operators of recognized hotels and resorts, restaurants, and events, catering, and tourism companies.
Full Description
This one-year Hospitality Services Certificate is career-focused and comes with a range of future study opportunities and, alternatively, enables entry to the industry. This program will provide students with the fundamental skills to provide exceptional service to global customers in the field of hospitality and tourism. This certificate program provides broad exposure to the many segments across the hospitality and tourism industry, it assists those with hospitality experience to build their skills for the Canadian workplace and it prepares them to advance their academics with a pathway for entry into two-year diploma programs in our School of Hospitality and Tourism Management. This program is closely linked to operators of recognized hotels and resorts, restaurants, and events, catering and tourism companies.
Successful completion of the Hospitality Services program prepares students academically for entry into the following School of Hospitality and Tourism Diploma Programs:
H130: Tourism and Hospitality Management
H132: Food and Beverage Management-Restaurant Management
H133: Hospitality-Hotel Operations Management
H141: Event Planning
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
With the completion of this certificate, you qualify to move into a number of diploma programs (noted below) with the School of Hospitality and Tourism Management, providing admission requirements are met and space is available. You may also apply for elective credit and exemptions for courses in those programs.
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Food and Beverage Management – Restaurant Management (H132)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Event Planning (H141)
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
HOST1085
Principles of Hospitality and Tourism Management
HOST1171
Global Accommodation Industry
HOST1172
Introduction to Wines and Beverages
HOST1070
Introduction to Catering
HOST1146
Leading, Following and Speaking with Confidence
COMM2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH1250
Introduction to Management Numeracy with Excel Applications
HOST1068
Smart Serve (online certificate)
HOSF1145
Sanitation (online certificate)
HOSF1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
HOST1174
Remarkable Restaurant Service – An Introduction to the Industry
HOST1043
Special Events Planning and Delivery
HOST1173
Hospitality Marketing and Social Media
HOST1160
Career Preparation
HOST1175
Global Tourism Geography*
HRM1015
Human Resources Management*
LAW1017
Introduction to Hospitality Law*
ACCT1048
Hospitality Accounting*
GSCI1035
Science of Sustainability
* seven-week courses.
** Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 Introduction to College Communication before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrated the ability to:
Provide hospitality service in a professional manner in order to increase customer satisfaction.
Identify and describe the various sectors of the Canadian tourism industry.
Use basic mathematic and monetary calculations to assist with the daily functions of a hospitality operation.
Assist in the marketing and sales of small- and medium-size hospitality operations.
Identify and comply with health and safety regulations, legislation and procedures related to the hospitality industry.
Plan and implement personal and professional development strategies related to the hospitality industry.
Use current technologies, systems and computer applications to support the daily functions of a hospitality operation.
Perform as an entry-level accommodation operations team member in both front and back of the house positions.
Perform as an entry-level food and beverage team member in both front and back of the house positions.
Note:
Successful completion of this program is not a guarantee of admission to any other program, nor is it a requirement of any other program.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,378.00 * †
International Tuition
$18,566.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
† Additional Costs
Textbooks, manuals, etc. – $575 (fees are subject to change).
Included in material fees is a uniform; black pants, grey Oxford shirt and a bib apron.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
Grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
Hospitality Services (Pre-Hospitality) (H101)
For general School of Hospitality and Tourism Management–related inquiries please contact
chcastudentsupport@georgebrown.ca.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Thinking about attending George Brown? The Hospitality Services program is taught at our St. James Campus at 200 King St. E., Toronto, Ontario. Sign up for an
information session
, book a general
campus tour
to see the common areas of the campus (i.e., cafeteria, student services, the gym, etc.).
Explore related programs:
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Event Planning (H141)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.