Human Resources Management Program (Postgraduate) (B408)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Human Resources Management
Code:
B408
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
12 months (2 semesters in-class, 1 semester work experience)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,153.00 * †
International Tuition:
$17,816.00 ** †
Centre:
Business
School:
Human Resources
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Work Experience (Co-op or Internship) Required
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: On Campus; Semester 3: Co-op
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: On Campus; Semester 3: Co-op
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Business – Human Resources (B134)
Project Management (Postgraduate) (B415)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Change is inevitable in today’s business world. As companies embrace the challenges of adapting and enhancing their organizations, they must look to the strength of their people. An organization’s success depends largely on attracting and retaining the right people, developing employees to achieve maximum potential and ensuring their efforts are rewarded. The
Human Resources Management
program at George Brown College in Toronto gives you these skills.
Full Description
Organizations today require engaged, motivated employees who understand how to effectively support organizational goals while enhancing their own skills and knowledge. Becoming a valued advisor to the business is a Human Resources (HR) imperative, and understanding how to effectively demonstrate a set of key behaviours is of utmost importance.
George Brown’s
Human Resources Management
graduate certificate program comprehensively covers the key HR functions in this exciting field. Taught by seasoned HR professionals with industry experience, the program blends business-related theory and practical application to highlight how HR functions as a strategic partner to business units. Students explore the role of the HR department and the key accountability requirements to demonstrate a high level of professionalism in a work-related setting.
Upon completion of the program, you will be able to:
describe how employment legislation impacts human resources
design human resources policies and programs
facilitate employee training and development
ensure health and safety in the workplace
recruit and select employees
promote diversity
manage performance
recommend strategic change initiatives
develop a total rewards system
manage employee/labour relations
create a comprehensive human resources plan
For those students who wish to pursue the Certified Human Resources Professional designation (CHRP), all applicable courses in the B408 program are HRPA approved. The courses prepare students to write the National Knowledge Exam offered by the Human Resources Professionals Association (HRPA). Refer to
hrpa.ca
for requirements and additional information on this designation.
This program is also offered in a fully online format. Students who wish to apply for the
Human Resources Management Online Postgraduate program
, should apply to
B428
.
This
Centre for Business
program is part of our
School of Human Resources
.
Your Field Education Options
Work Experience (co-op or internship Work Term)
This program requires the successful completion of one semester of work experience to graduate. This work experience is either co-op (paid) or internship (unpaid). Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe would provide the learning experiences they value and meet the learning outcomes of the program. This valuable work experience can in turn be added to your resumé.
Find out more about
field education
at the
Centre for Business
.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program will be equipped to enter a wide range of positions across a broad spectrum of public and private sector organizations such as financial institutions, retail, general business, manufacturing, government, legal firms, human resources consulting firms and not-for-profit organizations. Students will develop the skills and knowledge to enter into the human resources field and be ready to move up the career ladder. Graduates of the program have found employment as:
human resources generalist
recruiter
learning and development co-ordinator
compensation analyst
human resources co-ordinator
Educational Pathways
Students who wish to gain further knowledge and practical experience in training and development may pursue an optional stream in this area. Upon successful completion of the Training and Development Stream, students may choose to pursue the Certified Training and Development Professional Designation (CTDP) offered through the Institute of Performance and Learning. Refer to the
Institute of Performance and Learning website
for additional information on this designation.
Courses
Required Courses
In order to graduate from the
B408 program
, you must successfully complete the following
14
mandatory courses and
1
work experience term.
Printable Curriculum Planner 2023-2024
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
Co-requisite
ACCT 4005
Financial and Managerial Accounting
NONE
BUS 4017
Project Management
NONE
HRM 4003
Human Resource Management
NONE
HRM 4004
Organizational Effectiveness
NONE
HRM 4005
Recruitment and Selection
HRM 4003
HRM 4008
Training and Development **
HRM 4003
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
HRM 4009
Compensation
HRM 4003
HRM 4010
Labour Relations and Collective Agreements
HRM 4003
HRM 4011
Employment and Human Rights Law
HRM 4003
HRM 4012
Human Resources Planning
HRM 4003
HRM 4013
Occupational Health and Safety
HRM 4003
HRM 4015
HR Seminar Series
HRM 4003
HRM 4031
People Analytics
HRM 4003
BUS 4000
Work Experience Prep Course
NONE
WORK EXPERIENCE TERM
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
COOP 4003 / INTN 4003 / BAWT 4003
Work Experience (Co-op) / Work Experience (Internship)
BUS 4000
Course Exemptions (four-course maximum): The equivalent course must be from a recognized university with a minimum grade of 70 per cent and HRPA (Human Resources Professional Association of Ontario) approved, where applicable.
Note:
Our applicable HR courses have been approved by the Human Resources Professional Association of Ontario (HRPA) and students may choose to pursue an HRPA designation offered by them.
**Training and Development Stream (TDS)
Students who wish to gain further knowledge and practical experience in training and development may pursue an optional stream in this area. Upon successful completion of the Training and Development Stream, students may choose to pursue the Certified Training and Development Professional Designation (CTDP) offered through The Institute of Performance and Learning.
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
HRM 4008
Training & Development
HRM 4003 Co-requisite
HRM 2028
Training Design & Delivery
HRM 4008
HRM 2027
Coaching for Effective Performance Management
HRM 4003
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Contribute to the development, implementation and evaluation of employee recruitment, selection and retention plans and processes.
Administer and contribute to the design and evaluation of the performance management program.
Develop, implement and evaluate employee orientation, training and development programs.
Facilitate and support effective employee and labour relations in both non-union and union environments.
Research and support the development and communication of the organization’s total compensation plan.
Collaborate with others in the development, implementation and evaluation of organizational health and safety policies and practices.
Research and analyze information needs and apply current and emerging information technologies to support the human resources function.
Develop, implement and evaluate organizational development strategies aimed at promoting organizational effectiveness.
Present and evaluate communication messages and processes related to the human resources function of the organization.
Manage own professional development and provide leadership to others in the achievement of ongoing competence in human resources professional practice.
Facilitate and communicate the human resources component of the organization’s business plan.
Conduct research, produce reports and recommend changes in human resources practices.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,153.00 * †
International Tuition
$17,816.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
† This program includes one work experience semester.
The tuition fee for this program does NOT include the cost of the work experience semester. The Work Experience fee of $500 covers the cost of the Work Experience Preparation course
and
work experience semester.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
bachelor's degree in any field of study
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please review our
English proficiency requirements
.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
Human Resources Management (Postgraduate) (B408)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact  the co-ordinator:
Viji Vibhu Prakash
, Program Co-ordinator and Professor
Email:
Viji.VibhuPrakash@georgebrown.ca
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a tour
today! You can also take our
virtual tour
.
This program is offered out of our
School of Human Resources
and classes take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Social Channels:
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn.
Explore related programs:
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Business – Human Resources (B134)
Project Management (Postgraduate) (B415)
Centre for Business international student Andrea Munoz Tobon shares why she chose the Human Resource Management Postgraduate program at George Brown College during the pandemic and how it made her feel at home.
Andrea Munoz Tobon
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.