Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care Program (Postgraduate) (S417)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care
Code:
S417
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 semesters
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,872.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Complex and Long-Term Care Placement
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Suspended
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Suspended
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
RPN Bridge to BScN (Postgraduate) (S442)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This program was created in collaboration with the Ontario Centres for Learning, Research and Innovation in Long-Term Care at Baycrest and The G. Raymond Chang School of Continuing Education, Toronto Metropolitan University.
Program Overview
George Brown College's Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care
(S417) program
is a graduate certificate that prepares graduates to lead, manage or co-ordinate a team of interprofessional health-care providers in complex and long-term care environments. This program is delivered online.
Full Description
George Brown College's Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care (S417)
graduate certificate will prepare you to lead and coordinate teams in complex and long-term care environments. This program is delivered online with components available on-demand to accommodate those currently working.
During this two-semester program, you will learn to:
Coordinate and collaborate with team members across various professions in LTC by accessing on-the-job tools
Develop critical thinking and creative problem-solving skills
Use simulated team-based cases within a serious educational game platform to practice caring for patients or residents
Practice and hone skills during a 120-hour clinical placement (can be completed with an existing employer or through virtual connections)
Designed for those who want to coordinate or manage an interprofessional health care team and lead initiatives aimed to improve the LTC sector
Earn college and university course credits
Although this program is delivered online and uses a virtual learning environment to support learning with realistic clinical situations, you don’t need to have superior technical skills to succeed. We’ll teach you what you need to know from a technology standpoint as you develop critical skills that will support your role as a member of an interprofessional team.
Throughout this program, you’ll develop essential skills that you can implement on the job, including:
how to work effectively as a member of an interprofessional team
an evidence-based approach to the planning and delivery of care that focuses on both the client and the family
common age-related changes that impact social, psychological and biological functions
the ability to assess and respond to a client’s health condition as it changes over time
You’ll also study the principles of interprofessional care, relational, and end-of-life care to support people in complex and long-term care environments.
Delivery of Program
This program has been designed to meet the needs of working professionals. Classes are delivered online and on-demand to allow for greater flexibility.
This program is available either full-time over two semesters, or part-time to meet your individual learning needs.
PLEASE NOTE:
Some of our clinical or work placement partners may require students to show proof of full vaccination and PPE. For program specific requirements,
please visit this page for the latest updates on COVID-19
.
Your Field Education Options
Hands-on experience plays an important role in the Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care program. Students will be required to complete a 120-hour clinical placement to graduate.
If you work in the long-term care sector, you can complete the clinical placement component with your current employer.
If you are seeking an opportunity to change your career, you will be placed in a long-term care organization within your local community, or you will participate in a virtual clinical placement experience.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Upon graduation of George Brown's Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care program, you will be prepared to take on an organizing role as a co-ordinator or manager in a health-care facility that already uses or is looking to adapt to a more interprofessional approach. This would include facilities like:
long-term care homes
retirement homes
complex continuing care
rehabilitation
home health services
home visiting health services
seniors' day services
hospitals
other health care facilities
organizations that require interprofessional care knowledge and expertise
Industry
The skills you develop from the Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care certificate will allow you to step into a role that many institutions need, but may not be not advertising for. There is demand in institutional settings for those who have a deep understanding about how to best utilize an interprofessional approach as it relates to complex and long-term care.
Educational Pathways
George Brown College's Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care (S417) program is an Ontario College Graduate Certificate that provides laddering opportunities into additional certificate and diploma programs. Learners will gain transferable skills and credits toward other programs (e.g., baccalaureate degrees in nursing, health sciences management or gerontology).
Upon graduation from this program, the academic pathways available include the opportunity to apply for advanced standing for two credits in an undergraduate degree as they will have obtained two credits from Toronto Metropolitan University during the (S417) program.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Courses
Instruction Method
CLTC 4000
Introduction to Gerontology
Online
CLTC 4001
Introduction to Interprofessional Education and Care
Online
CLTC 4002
Responsiveness to Adults with Frailty
Online
CLTC 4003
Long-Term Care
Online
COMM 4020
Communication
Online
SEMESTER 2
Code
Courses
Instruction Method
CINT 901
Gerontology: Critical Issues and Future Trends
Online
CINT 907
Team Work in Community Services
Online
CLTC 4004
Coordination of Dementia Care
Online
CLTC 4005
Complex and Long-Term Care
Online
CLTC 4006
Capstone Field Placement
Field
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the program the graduate will be able to reliably demonstrate the ability to:
Advocate for client care plans as a member of an interprofessional team, to support client well-being and quality of life.
Communicate with clients, family members and health-care professionals to promote relational care and strengthen interprofessional collaborative practice.
Manage changes in client’s ability to interact with their environment to provide support to client and family care needs.
Support long-term client care and quality of life within complex social, economic, legal and political systems.
Manage changes in client conditions through the use of evidence-informed approaches, tools and techniques to identify and address client health.
Integrate principles and philosophy of end of life (EOL) care to support clients and their families in complex and long-term care settings.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,872.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Any health-related bachelor's degree, college-level diploma or certificate, health-related pathway program OR equivalent work experience (see documentation required below).
Required documents:
Official transcripts and proof of credential required.
Endorsement, special portfolio, resumé and references required by applicants who have not obtained a credential and are applying based on work experience only.
International documents must be evaluated by ICAS/WES.
This program is intended for college and/or university graduates from any Health Sciences program, as well as those working as health-care professionals who may not have the required academic credentials. Typical professions may include: personal support workers, registered practical nurses, registered nurses, social service workers, community workers, dental hygienists, activation co-ordinators/gerontologists.
Transfer Credits
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please see the
Transfer Guide
for more information. If applicants have completed any of the 10 courses prior to applying for the certificate (within the past three years), they can transfer up to 7.5 (75 per cent) of these courses to the certificate.
Special Requirements
Clinical pre-placement health form requirements and program policy
Upon acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 10 to 12 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres, Tdap shot valid every 10 years and two-step TB skin test), a clear
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year,
Standard First Aid certificate
renewed every three years,
CPR level HCP
renewed every year, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the given deadline to
ParaMed.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations that students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Pre-placement website.
Police Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (must be renewed every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
completed, and this check must be renewed annually before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Police Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Police Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Police Vulnerable Sector Check will not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the police record check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Pre-placement website.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2367
Email:
nursing@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
RPN Bridge to BScN (Postgraduate) (S442)
Dana, Current Student, Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care (S417)
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.