International Fashion Management Program (Postgraduate Certificate) (F412)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
International Fashion Management
Code:
F412
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,160.00 * +
International Tuition:
$17,857.00 ** +
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Fashion & Jewellery
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Mandatory field placement with in-class component and 160 field placement hours in the spring.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Fashion Management (F102)
Fashion Business Industry (F112)
Fashion Techniques and Design (F113)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The International Fashion Management program will prepare you with the skills and knowledge needed for success in the worldwide fashion industry. Courses emphasize theoretical expertise in fashion business practices, global marketing, logistics and supply chain management with some practical hands-on application.
Full Description
The
International Fashion Management
program is a one-year graduate certificate program* designed for the student or industry professional with a serious interest in the international apparel business.
The program provides you with the skills essential to succeed in the global apparel market. As new communication technologies make the world a smaller place, more possibilities for the fashion industry emerge on an international scale, along with many related career opportunities.
You are exposed to world trade through the study of economic, legal and cultural factors that affect international trade policies. Specifically, the focus of study is on the understanding of business practices, global marketing, logistics and supply chain management as they relate to the fashion industry worldwide. The program content combines analytical and management skills, along with knowledge of world culture and understanding of the global economy, to enable success in the international apparel industry.
*Courses are taught at the advanced level. This program requires commitment and planning for a
heavy course workload
in addition to class hours.
Note: This program includes an unpaid field education component at the end of the second semester. Students will not graduate until this component has been completed.
This program is part of our
School of Fashion and Jewellery.
Program Requirements
The International Fashion Management program requires students to have access to a personal laptop or desktop computer, and reliable Internet access for synchronous classes.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Depending on previous education and work experience, combined with completion of the International Fashion Management program, graduates may find careers in various areas of the fashion industry such as apparel suppliers, wholesale distribution companies, major retailers and independent retailers.
Graduates are employed in positions leading to careers such as:
business analysis
logistics
planning and allocation
import and export
product brand management
sourcing
wholesale distribution and sales
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner 2023-2024
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
FASH 1129
International Trade and Economics
FASH 1130
Global Logistics and Resources I
FASH 1202
Communication Across Cultures
LAW 1152
International Trade Agreements and Business Law
MATH 1101
Business Math and Statistics
FASH 1082
World of Fashion**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
FASH 1131
Business Research Methods
FASH 1141
Apparel Brand Licensing Agreements
FASH 1236
Global Marketing
FASH 1237
Project Management
FASH 1239
Global Logistics and Resources II
FASH 1248
Field Education Experience (May to August – 160 hours)
FASH 1253
Field Education Preparation
**Students without a fashion background may be required to take this course.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College courses and the requirements.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Manage processes relating to the international movement of apparel goods according to supply chain and logistics principles.
Identify the knowledge of international trade and licensing agreements required to perform import, export and source functions in an apparel business operation.
Analyze global economics and geopolitics to inform selection of international apparel business partners.
Research and create a global marketing plan to support international apparel business strategies.
Develop culturally appropriate strategies and techniques to communicate successfully in a global apparel business environment.
Select current business practices, research methods, analytic techniques and tools required to conduct apparel business operations in a global context.
Practise business ethically by applying principles of environmental, economic and social sustainability to domestic and international apparel operations.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,160.00 * +
International Tuition
$17,857.00 ** +
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
+ Books and additional supplies are not included in tuition fees and must be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Diploma or bachelor's degree in business or fashion with a minimum program grade point average of 2.7.
OR
Diploma or bachelor's degree with a minimum program GPA of 2.7 AND three years of directly related career experience (resumé required).
Preference will be given to applicants who have some academic background in economics, marketing and logistics.
Please note:
Applicants without a background in Canadian fashion or business may be required to take an introductory course in these subjects as a condition of acceptance.
Applicants without a
Canadian fashion background in a variety of fashion related disciplines
will be required to take FASH 1082 World of Fashion in semester 1. If this is a requirement, you will be advised of this in your OFFER letter.
Applicants without a
business background
will be advised to take a preparatory business course prior to start of class. Applicants who are recommended to take this course will be contacted by the Fashion department.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts where English proficiency results are not supplied must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered.
Please visit the
English Proficiency
page for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Fashion and Jewellery
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4840
Email:
fashionandjewellery@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Fashion and Jewellery
and classes take place at our
Casa Loma Campus
, located at
160 Kendal Ave.
, Toronto, ON, Canada.
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an info session
.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Fashion Management (F102)
Fashion Business Industry (F112)
Fashion Techniques and Design (F113)
“The Post Graduate International Fashion Management program is excellent for someone looking to launch a career in the apparel industry. The curriculum helps you to understand the business side of fashion, from understanding the trade between countries and their applicable laws or getting a glimpse of the supply chain.
The program challenges you to be ready for all real-life scenarios through live case studies provided by industry-active professors. I strongly recommend this program to those who want to truly understand the business side, which is an indispensable factor in making money out of your creativity. The program offers numerous career-building opportunities; however, I would recommend sticking to what you like and work towards that.
The mandatory internship goes hand-in-hand and makes you understand how the Canadian fashion industry works and brings you one step closer to beginning your career.
I wish future students all the very best and look forward to seeing them working in the industry with excellence after graduation from  this program!”
Pushpreet Singh
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.