Media Foundation Program (P111)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Media Foundation
Code:
P111
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,170.00 *
International Tuition:
$20,615.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Media & Performing Arts
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Video Design & Production (P112)
Graphic Design (G102)
Art and Design Foundation (G108)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The Media Foundation program offers you the chance to explore a variety of media career options while developing the skills necessary to succeed in diploma and advanced diploma media programs. You will have the opportunity to explore courses in photography and image manipulation, storytelling, audio production, interactive media and visual storytelling techniques.
Full Description
The
Media Foundation
program offers you the chance to explore a variety of media career options while developing the skills necessary to succeed in diploma and advanced diploma media programs. It includes courses in photography and image manipulation, storytelling, audio production, interactive media and visual storytelling techniques.
The Portfolio class offered in semester 2 will help you create a portfolio, which can be used to submit for further studies in
Graphic Design
,
Interaction Design
,
Game – Art
,
Video Design & Production
and other college and university programs requiring a portfolio for admission.
Program Requirements
The Media Foundation program requires students to have access to a personal computer with the following minimum specifications:
laptop or desktop
CPU:
8th generation Intel Core i5-8250U or equivalent
graphics:
Intel UHD graphics 620 or equivalent
RAM:
4–8GB
screen:
13-inch (1,920 x 1,080)
storage:
256GB SSD
additional storage
: 1TB Portable HD
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Educational Pathways
The Media Foundation program provides a general knowledge base for further studies in our
Interaction Design and Development
,
Game – Art
and
Video Design & Production
programs, where students will be immersed in more specialized knowledge.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
Pre-Requisite
MFND 1001
Media Research
NONE
MFND 1002
Drawing Fundamentals
NONE
MFND 1003
Visual Design Fundamentals
NONE
MFND 1004
Storytelling
NONE
MFND 1005
Photography Fundamentals
NONE
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Pre-Requisite
MFND 1012
Digital Drawing
MFND1002, MFND1003
MFND 1016
Introduction to Multimedia
MFND1003
MFND 1017
Interaction Fundamentals
MFND1001
MFND 1018
Resource Filmmaking
MFND1005, MFND1004
MFND 1019
Digital Portfolio
MFND1003, MFND1005
VDES 1000
Mise-en-Scène & Film Structures
MFND1003, MFND1005
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Develop creative concepts and ideas through a variety of techniques and in a range of formats.
Choose appropriate tools, techniques and applications to create media assets and presentations.
Incorporate researched opinions expressed in mainstream and social media technologies into presentations and reports.
Utilize current and relevant search strategies and techniques for information fact-finding.
Apply industry practices to written proposals and print documents, visual storyboards and interactive presentations.
Choose visual strategies, historical concepts and precedents in the analysis of past and present trends.
Create original photographs and videos through a variety of techniques and processes.
Choose appropriate narrative structures and vocabularies to analyze media and evaluate meaning, coherence, connections and effectiveness.
Utilize a variety of industry standard audio/video software applications and techniques in the creation of media for a wide range of platforms.
Use a variety of current industry-standard media tools and techniques to develop self-promotional materials.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,170.00 *
International Tuition
$20,615.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials (non-refundable), student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
Please note: students who start the program in January (winter term) will be required to attend classes during the summer months (May to August).
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Media & Performing Arts
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2015
Email:
media@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered through our
School of Media and Performing Arts
and classes take place at our
St. James Campus
, located at
230 Richmond Street East
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
On-campus information sessions
are available. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Video Design & Production (P112)
Graphic Design (G102)
Art and Design Foundation (G108)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.