Media Acting - Graduate Intensive Program (P707)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Media Acting - Graduate Intensive
Code:
P707
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
7 weeks
Starting Months:
July
Domestic Tuition:
$2,300.00*
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Media & Performing Arts
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Not Available
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1: Not Available
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Acting for Media (P107)
Theatre Arts – Performance (P104)
Theatre Arts-Preparation (P108)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This seven-week certificate program is specifically designed for actors who have graduated from recognized theatre schools or theatre professionals (Equity members) with at least five years' experience, and wish to acquire, develop and deepen their on-camera acting skills in order to move confidently between the worlds of stage and screen.
Full Description
Media Acting – Graduate Intensive
is a seven-week certificate program for theatre school graduates or theatre professionals (Equity members) with at least five years' experience, who wish to acquire, develop and deepen their on-camera acting skills in order to move confidently between the worlds of stage and screen. This intensive George Brown College certificate program is designed exclusively for acting program graduates and theatre professionals who have a solid foundation on which to build.
Each week, students take compressed classes in a modular learning style, including lessons in voice-over, animation, combat for film, new technology acting and auditioning for film. They also take a daily on-camera acting class for the full seven weeks. Included is a weekly guest lecture series featuring professional directors, producers, actors and agents speaking on relevant topics within the field.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Courses
Required Courses
Required Courses
Code
Course Name
ACTS 7002
Creating Your Own Work
ACTS 7006
Audition Techniques
ACTS 7008
New Technology Acting
ACTS 7009
Voice-over Characterization
ACTS 7010
Acting for the Camera
ACTS 7015
Combat for Film
ACTS 7016
Commercial Auditioning
ACTS 7019
Animation Voicing
ACTS 7050
Guest Lecture Series
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Present oneself for employment in media as a professional actor and provide services that meet professional industry standards and ethics.
Develop a believable character appropriate for the role and to the technological requirements of each recorded media discipline.
Convey and sustain truth of character using relevant technical skills with appropriate emotional depth and clarity throughout the shooting of multiple scenes.
Work collaboratively with agents, casting directors, producers, directors and film crews.
Develop and apply strategies for personal, career and professional development to enhance work performance and maintain currency within the industry.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$2,300.00*
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for this seven-week summer program starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected based on the selection criteria outlined below:
Graduate of a two- or three-year Theatre Acting diploma or a three- or four-year degree BFA in acting or or theatre professionals (Equity members).
How to Apply
Applications for this program are done directly through the School of Media and Performing Arts at George Brown College. Please fill in the
application form
to start the process.
Questions can be directed to
media@georgebrown.ca
or 416-415-5000 ext. 2015.
Contact Us
School of Media & Performing Arts
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2015
Email:
media@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Visit Our Campus
The
School of Media & Performing Arts
is located at the
St. James Campus
at
230 Richmond St East
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Acting for Media (P107)
Theatre Arts – Performance (P104)
Theatre Arts-Preparation (P108)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.