Personal Support Worker Program (PSW) (C112)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Personal Support Worker
Code:
C112
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 semesters
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,899.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Clinical Placement
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Not Available
Winter
2024
Closed
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
George Brown has been training Personal Support Workers for over 20 years.
Program Overview
George Brown College's Personal Support Worker (PSW) (C112)
is a two-semester program that teaches students the skills required to provide or assist with personal care for the elderly, the chronically ill and persons with accessibility challenges. These patients may live in the community, in long-term care facilities or in select ambulatory care settings. Classes are held online and on-site at our state-of-the-art Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences located at the Waterfront Campus.
Full Description
George Brown College's Personal Support Worker (PSW)
(C112)
is a two-semester program that teaches students the full range of skills required to assist clients with their personal and household needs in order to ensure their comfort and safety.
PSWs provide or assist with personal care for:
the frail elderly
the chronically ill
people with physical disabilities living in the community
people in long-term care facilities
people in select ambulatory care settings
people in acute medical and surgical settings
people receiving palliative care
PLEASE NOTE:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
Courses focus on the skills and abilities needed to create a climate that promotes the optimal physical, social and emotional well-being of each client.
Your Field Education Options
As a student in the Personal Support Worker program, you will learn how to practice as a member of an interprofessional health-care team through a variety of clinical placement experiences. These experiences will include supervised placements in institutional and community settings, and an interprofessional
Simulation Centre
experience.
Please note:
Faculty-supervised clinical practicums take place in various settings across the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). The clinical practicum experience may vary between day and/or evening shifts, depending upon the practice setting.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
PSW graduates find employment at locations such as:
ambulatory care settings
long-term care facilities
residential and supportive housing
community support agencies
acute medical settings
palliative care settings
Educational Pathways
Personal Support Worker (C112) graduates who with to continue their education to enter the nursing profession and who meet all admission requirements may apply to George Brown College's
PSW Pathway to Practical Nursing program (S119)
.
Alternately, PSW graduates who meet all admission requirements can apply directly to the
Practical Nursing program (S121)
program.
PSW graduates with an interest in working in long-term care facilities should consider applying to our
Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care postgraduate certificate.
This two-semester program teaches students to lead a team of interprofessional care professionals in complex and long-term care settings. The program is delivered online and includes a clinical field placement component. For details, visit the
S417 program page
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
PSW 1001
Role of the PSW in Client Care
PSW 1017
Providing Optimal Client and Personal Care (Lecture)
PSW 1019
Providing Optimal Client and Personal Care (Lab)
PSW 1022
Fundamentals of the Human Body
PSW 1023
Essentials PSW Communication Skills
PSW 1024
Foundations of Supportive Care
PSW 1025
Role of PSW in Medication Management
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
CARE 1101
Providing Support in a Facility Setting
CARE 1103
Providing Support in a Community Setting
CARE 1112
Health Conditions and the Role of the PSW
CARE 1113
Mental Health & Palliative Care
CARE 1114
Nutritional Care
CARE 1115
Foundations of Supportive Care II
Note: Curriculum review in progress. Course titles may change without notice. Such changes will appear here.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Work within the personal support worker role in community, retirement homes, long-term care homes and/or hospital care settings in accordance with all applicable legislation and employer’s job description, policies, procedures and guidelines.
Act responsibly and be accountable for own actions while recognizing the boundaries of knowledge and skills within the personal support worker role that require collaboration with the clients, families, supervisors and/or other members of the interprofessional care/service team.
Participate as a member of the interprofessional care/service team and maintain collaborative working relationships in the provision of supportive care in community, retirement homes, long-term care homes and/or hospital care settings.
Provide client-centred and client-directed care that is based on ethical principles, sensitive to diverse client and family values, beliefs and needs and that follows the direction of the plan of care/service plan.
Establish and maintain helping relationships with clients and their families, reflecting open communication, professional boundaries, employer’s policies and adhering to confidentiality and privacy legislation.
Identify relevant client information using basic assessment and communication skills and report and document findings in accordance with the requirements of employer policies and procedures and all applicable legislation.
Promote and maintain a safe and comfortable environment for clients, their families, self and others, including the implementation of infection prevention and control measures and emergency first aid procedures that are in keeping with the plan of care/service plan, employer policies and procedures and all applicable legislation.
Assist clients across the lifespan with routine activities of daily living by applying basic knowledge of growth and development, common alterations in functioning, disease prevention, health promotion and maintenance, rehabilitation and restorative care.
Assist clients with medication in keeping with the direction of the plan of care/service plan and under the direction and monitoring of a regulated health professional or most accountable person and in accordance with all applicable legislation and employer’s policies.
Assist with household management tasks and instrumental activities of daily living in accordance with the plan of care/service plan and considering the preferences, comfort and safety of clients, families and significant others.
Assist clients who are caring for dependent individuals considering client and family choices, professional boundaries and the direction of the plan of care/service plan.
Identify and report situations of neglect, and potential, alleged or witnessed/actual incidents of abuse, and respond in accordance with all applicable legislation and employer’s policies and procedures.
Assist in the provision of culturally relevant palliative and end-of-life care to clients experiencing life-threatening illness and to their families and significant others, from diagnosis through death and bereavement, and in accordance with clients’ choices and the plan of care/service plan.
Use identified approaches and best practices to support positive and safe behaviour in clients experiencing cognitive impairment, mental health challenges and/or responsive behaviours.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,899.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the
estimated
total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
Note:
This program is open to domestic applicants only.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement health form requirements and program policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 10 to 12 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres, Tdap shot valid every 10 years and two-step TB skin test), a clear
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
must be renewed every six months,
standard first aid certificate
renewed every three years,
CPR level HCP
renewed every year, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the given deadline to
ParaMed
.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Pre-placement website
.
Police Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every six months)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
completed, and this check must be renewed every six months before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Police Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Police Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Police Vulnerable Sector Check will not be able to start their field or clinical placement and will therefore be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program. Our agency partners have the final decision for students being allowed to practice in their agency.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the police record check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Pre-placement website
.
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 Email:
nursing@georgebrown.ca
Office Hours: Monday to Thursday, 8 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. & Friday 8 a.m. – 4 p.m.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
"Upon graduating from the Personal Support Worker program at George Brown College, I can honestly say that my life is changed for the better. The course work was gruelling and the practical exhausting but I have never had such a great experience with a school. To your professors you are not just a student number, you are someone who could one day be taking care of family members and loved ones. The amount of time and effort my clinical instructor put into my education was unforgettable. Her care over my academic and emotional well-being will stick with me forever. George Brown College truly prepared me for a exciting future full of meaning."
Mira Glogauer
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.