Practical Nursing Program (PN) (S121)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Practical Nursing
Code:
S121
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,096.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Clinical Placement
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3, 4: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 4: Hybrid; Semester 2, 3: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Not Available
Winter
2024
Closed
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
RPN Bridge to BScN (Postgraduate) (S442)
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing graduates to work as registered practical nurses for over 30 years.
Program Overview
George Brown College's two-year Practical Nursing program teaches students the foundational skills required to work as a registered practical nurse. Following successful completion of the program, graduates will be eligible to write the
Registered Practical Nurse (RPN) Registration Examinations
.
Full Description
George Brown College's Practical Nursing (S121) program
teaches students the knowledge and skills required to enter the profession of practical nursing. This two-year program has been designed to meet the new
entry-to-practice requirements
adopted by the
College of Nurses of Ontario (CNO)
and program standards set by the
Ministry of Colleges and Universities
. Classes are held at the Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences located at our
Waterfront Campus
.
The Practical Nursing program at George Brown College is approved by the
College of Nurses of Ontario
(
www.cno.org
). Graduates who meet the CNO requirements after passing the qualifying examinations are eligible to apply for registration as a Registered Practical Nurse (RPN) in Ontario.
What you'll study in George Brown's Practical Nursing program:
nursing
human anatomy
physiology
pharmacology
pathology
the humanities
PLEASE NOTE:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
Hands-On Learning
The role of a practical nurse often means providing hands-on care to patients. To properly prepare you, you'll practise your skills at our on-site nearly 24,000 square foot
Simulation Centre
– a facility designed to look and feel like the hospitals and other environments where you could end up working.
You'll also get off-site clinical experience with one of our valued partners.
For more information on the required skills and abilities for the Practical Nursing profession, please review the fact sheet of Requisite Skills and Abilities on the College of Nurses of Ontario website:
College of Nurses of Ontario – Requisite Skills and Abilities Fact Sheet.
Following successful completion of the program, graduates will be eligible to write the
Registered Practical Nurse (RPN) Registration Examinations
and the
College of Nurses of Ontario (CNO) Jurisprudence Examination
.
George Brown College Practical Nursing program graduates who wrote the regulatory exam have scored near or above the provincial average for the past three years**.
Placement test
: Based upon mandatory placement testing, some students may be required to enrol in courses aimed at enhancing profession-based written and verbal English language skills.
*
College of Nurses of Ontario – Approved (Category 1)​
**
College of Nurses of Ontario,
Nursing Registration Exams Report 2021 (cno.org)
Your Field Education Options
Hands-On Learning in George Brown's Practical Nursing Program
The role of a registered practical nurse can vary, but it often means providing direct hands-on care to patients. To properly prepare you, you'll practice your skills at our on-site nearly 24,000 square foot
Simulation Centre
– a facility designed to look and feel like the hospitals and other environments where you could end up working.
You'll also get off-site clinical experience with one of our valued partners.
Clinical placement experiences are conducted under direct faculty supervision within varied patient care settings across the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). Students may participate in placements requiring extended shifts during evening and weekend hours.
Typical settings include:
acute care hospitals
rehabilitation centres
long-term care facilities
The clinical practicum experience in the final semester of the program is completed with a preceptor, whereby the student works with their preceptor across all shifts and days of the week.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of the Practical Nursing program have employment opportunities in practice settings such as:
acute and community care hospitals
long-term care
rehabilitation
other health-care facilities
organizations and agencies that require nursing knowledge and expertise
Educational Pathways
Students who successfully complete the George Brown Practical Nursing (PN) program or a two-year community college PN program in Ontario with a minimum cumulative average of 75 per cent and not less than 70 per cent in any element of the PN program, may be eligible to study the
R.P.N. Bridge to B.Sc.N. Pathway (S442)
.
Upon successful completion of this bridge, students will be eligible to apply to Trent University's Nursing degree program offered on-site at George Brown College.
Graduates of a health sciences program who have an interest in working in long-term care facilities should consider applying to our
Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care (S417) postgraduate certificate
.
(S417) Program Details:
two-semester program
you will learn to co-ordinate and manage an interprofessional health-care team of complex and long-term care professionals
delivered online and on-demand to accommodate working professionals
includes a clinical field placement component
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
ANAT 1052
Anatomy and Physiology for Practical Nursing I
NURS 1067
Foundations of Nursing Theory
NURS 1098
The PN Role & Interprofessional Relationships
NURS 1100
Foundations in Clinical Practice (Lab)
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
PHAR 1055
Foundations in Pharmacology and Calculations for PN
GNED
General Education Elective
GSSC 1057
Lifespan Development
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
ANAT 1053
Anatomy and Physiology for Practical Nursing II
PATH 1016
Pathology and Therapeutics I
NURS 1027
Nursing Theory for Practical Nurses I
PHAR 1057
Pharmacology for Practical Nurses I
NURS 1068
Health Assessment in Clinical Practice I
NURS 1104
Nursing Lab Skills II
NURS 1105
Clinical Practicum
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
PATH 1017
Pathology and Therapeutics II
NURS 1028
Nursing Theory for Practical Nurses II
PHAR 1059
Pharmacology for Practical Nurses II
NURS 2018
Clinical Applications III
NURS 2016
Profession of Nursing II
NURS 2023
Health Assessment in Clinical Practice II
NURS 2028
Nursing Lab Skills III
COMM 1147
Critical Enquiry in Practical Nursing I
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
NURS 2017
Nursing Theory for Practical Nurses III
NURS 2020
Clinical Applications IV
NURS 2029
Sociological Perspectives in Nursing
GNED
General Education Elective
Due to ongoing program review and improvements to meet the College of Nurses of Ontario entry-to-practice requirements, semester courses are subject to change with limited notice. Such changes will be reflected on the
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing webpage
and via correspondence sent out to semester students prior to start-up and/or return.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Communicate therapeutically with clients and members of the health-care team.
Assess clients across the lifespan in a systematic and holistic manner.
Plan safe and competent nursing care, based upon a thorough analysis of available data and evidence-informed practice guidelines.
Select and perform nursing interventions using clinical judgment, in collaboration with the client and, where appropriate, the health-care team, that promote health and well-being, prevent disease and injury, maintain and/or restore health, promote rehabilitation and/or provide palliation.
Evaluate the outcomes resulting from all interventions in the nurse-client interaction and modify the plan of care as required.
Act equitably and justly with clients and members of the health-care team.
Adapt to a variety of health-care settings, using different leadership skills and styles as appropriate to each setting.
Contribute to creating a healthy and safe work environment in a variety of health care settings.
Practise in a self-regulated, professional and ethical manner, complying with relevant legislation and with the standards of both the regulatory body and the practice setting to provide safe and competent client care.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,096.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
Please note: This program does not accept international students.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U) – English with a grade of 70 per cent or higher
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U) – mathematics with a grade of 70 per cent or higher
grade 11 biology (C or U) or grade 12 (U) - biology with a grade of 70 per cent or higher
grade 11 chemistry (U) or grade 12 (C or U) - chemistry with a grade of 70 per cent or higher
Interview by invitation only: This is a competitive program and only the most qualified applicants will be invited to complete an online, recorded interview to assess specific competencies related to the field of Nursing^.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature Students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, Math, Chemistry or Biology, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
,
Math
, Chemistry or Biology.
Applicants with existing post-secondary nursing education from Canadian or international educational institutions are required to submit all transcripts.
Transfer credit and course exemptions for credits taken at other institutions related to the field of nursing are restricted in this program, and will be decided upon on a case-by-case basis by the School of Nursing. Applications for Advanced Standing are not available for this program.
^ Details on the interview will be provided to qualified applicants during the application process. Applicants may take the interview only once per academic cycle, regardless of the results of the interview (i.e., only one interview valid for the fall, winter and spring start dates).
^ Qualified applicants from the A109 Pre-Health Sciences program articulation with S121 Practical Nursing will be invited to complete the online video interview.
Please note:
The grade(s) required in the subject prerequisites will be subject to competition. Only the most qualified applicants will be offered an opportunity to interview. Only the top ranked applicants will be offered a seat in the program.
Only applications to the first semester of the Practical Nursing program will be considered.
IMPORTANT: Course Delivery Format
This program is delivered in a 2-1-2 format. You will progress through the program with two consecutive semesters, one semester as a break, and then the final two consecutive semesters. This delivery format will apply regardless of the term that you start the program.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement health form requirements and program policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 10 to 12 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres, Tdap shot valid every 10 years and two-step TB skin test), a clear
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year,
Standard First Aid certificate
renewed every three years,
CPR level HCP
renewed every year, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the given deadline to
ParaMed.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations that students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program's health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Pre-placement website
.
Police Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (must be renewed every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
completed, and this check must be renewed annually before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Police Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered "vulnerable persons" under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for "individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s)."
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Police Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a "clear" Police Vulnerable Sector Check will not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a "not clear" status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the police record check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Pre-placement website
.
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2367
Email:
nursing@georgebrown.ca
Office Hours: Monday to Thursday, 8 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. & Friday, 8 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Alternatively, you may visit us at the Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing located on seventh floor of the Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences at the Waterfront Campus to speak with our staff or arrange to speak with one of our co-ordinators during regular business hours.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
RPN Bridge to BScN (Postgraduate) (S442)
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.