Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas Program (A109)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas
Code:
A109
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,032.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,504.00 **
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Work & College Preparation
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: Choice
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: Online; Semester 1, 2: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Open
Closed
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Recreation Management in Gerontology (C152)
Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) (S113)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
program will prepare you for admission to a variety of Health Sciences programs including George Brown College’s
Practical Nursing (S121)
diploma program. To develop the skills you need to work as an effective member of a health-care team, you will take courses in biology, chemistry, applied math, social science, human relations, communications and general education electives.
PLEASE NOTE:
If you are interested in pursuing a three-year advanced diploma or four-year degree program at the college or university level, apply to George Brown’s
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Advanced Diplomas and Degrees (A108)
program.
Full Description
Pre-Programs at George Brown College
Pre-programs are post-secondary certificate programs that offer you the opportunity to take courses for career exploration or to qualify for further study. With small class sizes, dedicated teachers and built-in advising and supports, our suite of pre-programs will help you strengthen your academic skills and will prepare you for further coursework.
George Brown's Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas
program will prepare you academically for future study in several Health Sciences programs by setting a foundation in core mathematics and science courses and providing an overview of the health-care industry.
Upon completion of this program, you will have a variety of program pathway options at other post-secondary institutions and many George Brown programs, including:
Practical Nursing
Dental Assisting
Orthotics/Prosthetics
Medical Office Administration
Recreation Management in Gerontology
Today's health-care employers are looking for skilled workers to address a critical labour shortage. Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas will provide you with the practical training, confidence-building and communication skills you need to excel in many health-care programs and careers in the field.
Through classroom and hands-on study, you will explore careers in the health sector, including those in health-care institutions or with health-care providers. You will also gain a basic understanding of social sciences and human relations – essential skills for the field of health sciences.
As a student in this program, you will have access to career development, academic advising and student success services to support your career exploration and other academic needs.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
George Brown College’s Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
program will help you meet the admission requirements you need to apply to a variety of college-level Health Science programs within George Brown and at other post-secondary institutions.
As a graduate of the (A109) program, you will have access to several direct pathway options, including:
Practical Nursing (S121)
Dental Assisting (S113)
Orthotic/Prosthetic Technician (S102)
Office Administration – Health Services (S135)
Recreation Management in Gerontology (C152)
PLEASE NOTE: Each of these programs reserves a limited number of seats per intake for (A109) graduates who meet certain conditions (such as a minimum grade point average for the program or minimum grades in specific courses). Admission to some of these programs is highly competitive and is not guaranteed.
This program does not provide a direct pathway to degree programs such as the Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BScN).
If you are interested in pursuing a three-year advanced diploma or four-year degree program at the college or university level, apply to George Brown’s
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Advanced Diplomas and Degrees (A108)
program.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
BIOL 1051
Biology for Health Sciences I – Diploma Pathway
CHEM 1021
Chemistry for Health Sciences I – Diploma Pathway
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
MATH 1142
Mathematics for Health Sciences I – Diploma Pathway
PREP 1012
Personal and Professional Development
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
BIOL 1061
Biology for Health Sciences II – Diploma Pathway
CHEM 1031
Chemistry for Health Sciences II – Diploma Pathway
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
MATH 1152
Mathematics for Health Sciences II – Diploma Pathway
PREP 1025
Speaking with Confidence
GNED
General Education Elective
The School of Work and College Preparation provides applicants and students with access to a Pathway Advisor, who provides information about upgrading options, pre-programs and articulation agreements and helps facilitate the transition into further post-secondary programs.
Returning students who have been removed from this program due to academic penalties must write an appeal letter if they reapply.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Examine fundamental biological concepts, processes and systems of the human body, including the structure, function and properties of the molecules of life, cells, tissues and organ systems in relation to homeostasis and health.
Examine fundamental concepts, processes and systems of chemistry, including matter and chemical bonding; quantities in chemical reactions; solutions and solubility; acids and bases; as well as nomenclature, structure and properties of organic compounds in relation to health and the human body.
Solve basic numeric problems and interpret data related to health sciences and other science-related fields using mathematical concepts, including algebra, basic probability and descriptive statistics.
Use health sciences and other science-related language and terminology appropriately to communicate clearly, concisely, and correctly in written, spoken and visual forms.
Prepare a personal strategy and plan for academic, career and professional development in the health sciences or other science-related fields.
Investigate health sciences and science-related questions, problems and evidence using the scientific method.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,032.00 *
International Tuition
$17,504.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Note: Pathways
The A109 Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas program provides a direct path to the following programs at George Brown College: Practical Nursing, Dental Assisting, Recreation Management in Gerontology, Fitness and Health Promotion and Office Administration – Medical.
Each of these programs reserves a limited number of seats per intake for Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas graduates who meet certain conditions (such as a minimum grade point average for the program or minimum grades in specific courses) upon graduation from Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas. Admission to some of these programs is highly competitive.
NEW – Practical Nursing (S121) admission requirements include an online video interview for all qualified applicants (including those through the A109 pathway).
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Contact the Pathway Advisor via email at
preparation@georgebrown.ca
or via telephone at 416-415-5000 x2874 for program and pathways information.
If you are a former student who wishes to return to the program, contact the Program Assistant via email at
Christine.Kissoore@georgebrown.ca
.
Learn more about our
college preparation programs and work preparation programs
.
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Thinking about attending George Brown? The Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificate and Diplomas program is taught at our St. James Campus at 341 King St. E., Toronto, Ontario.
Sign up for an
information session
, book a general
campus tour
to see the common areas of each campus (i.e., cafeteria, student services, the gym, etc.) or explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Recreation Management in Gerontology (C152)
Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) (S113)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.