Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC) Technician Program (Distance Education) (T903)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC) Technician
Code:
T903
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Part-time
Duration:
32 weeks (approximately)
Starting Months:
Open enrolment
Domestic Tuition:
$1,700.00 *
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Online
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Continuous Open Enrollment
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Winter
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Spring
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC) Technician II (Distance Education) (T949)
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Robotics Technician (Distance Education) (T948)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
The Programmable Logic Controllers Technician (PLC) Certificate program provides the basic technical skills and knowledge necessary to work with programmable logic control systems found typically in an industrial/manufacturing environment. The program covers the operation of various PLC control systems including both discrete and analog control devices. The simulation software, PLCLogix 500, which is included with the program, simulates the Rockwell Logix 500 series of PLCs.
ADVANCED STANDING
If you have finished the PLC Technician II program, you are exempted from 7 modules of the PLC Technician program.
Full Description
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Complete all aspects of the program while studying at home using an interactive learning package and receive a
PLC Technician certificate.
This innovative Distance Education program combines state-of-the-art PLC simulation with one of the biggest-selling PLC books in history.
The learning materials, provided in a web-based downloadable file format, with 19 courses (modules) contain text, audio, 2D and 3D animations, computer-based testing and PLCLogix 500 simulation software.
The interactive PLCLogix 500 simulation software essentially converts your computer into a virtual PLC and allows you to run, verify and debug ladder logic programs based on the Allen-Bradley RSLogix 500 format. PLCLogix 500 allows you to familiarize yourself with many different features associated with Allen-Bradley PLCs, including timers, counters, sequencers and math functions. Design ladder logic programs, perform tests and simulate the operation of real-world components, including motors, solenoid valves and a wide variety of other discrete and analog I/O devices.
You may enrol at any time during the year (open enrolment) and complete the modules in the learning package at your own speed. The typical completion time is 32 weeks, but there are no time limits.
PREREQUISITES
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (with credits at or above general level) or equivalent or mature student status.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
This program prepares you to work in the rapidly expanding field of industrial automation and control. Automation in the industry is providing jobs for technically trained people who can build, program, integrate, service, maintain and operate PLCs. The PLC Technician program will provide the basic technical skills and knowledge necessary to work with electrical control systems typically found in an industrial environment.
PLC technicians install and repair industrial electronic equipment, including I/O networks, data highways, variable speed drives and process control equipment, and write PLC programs for a wide variety of automated control systems, ranging from simple on-off control systems to robotics. PLC technicians also find employment in the industrial engineering field, where they are actively involved in the design and implementation of PLC control systems.
Courses
Required Courses
The modules should be taken in the following order:
COMPULSORY (19)
Code
Course Name
ELNC 9071
Overview of PLCs
ELNC 9072
Central Processing Unit
ELNC 9073
I/O System
ELNC 9074
Programming Terminals and Peripherals
ELNC 9075
Installation and Maintenance of PLCs
ELNC 9076
Relay Logic
ELNC 9077
Ladder Logic
ELNC 9078
Timers
ELNC 9079
Counters
ELNC 9080
MCR, JUMP and FORCE Instructions
ELNC 9081
Sequencers
ELNC 9082
Data Transfer
ELNC 9083
Math Functions
ELNC 9084
Process Control
ELNC 9085
Data Communications
ELNC 9086
Number Systems and Codes
ELNC 9087
Digital Logic
ELNC 9120
RTUs and PACs
ELNC 9116
Introduction to Automation
Detailed course outlines
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$1,700.00 *
Additional Costs
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
There is no additional cost. Students can pay tuition in full or pay-as-you-learn option as below
Initial registration is $440 (includes all learning materials, laboratory simulation software and access to the Module 1 exam) and registration for each of the remaining 18 modules is $70/module. Students may register for one or more modules at any time. International applicants are charged the same fees but in U.S. dollars (US$440); the posted exchange rate in effect at the time of your registration will be used to determine the final fee in Canadian dollars. There is no refund on learning material.
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition for programs starting in
Fall 2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older)
Special Requirements
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Minimum Computer Requirements
Pentium-based PC or equivalent
minimum 512MB RAM (1GB recommended)
minimum 250MB available hard disk space
Windows 7/8/8.1/10
email account
Internet access
32- and 64-bit compatible
Note: Our program software is strictly made for Windows Operating Systems and will therefore only run on Windows-based computers. It will
NOT
work on Apple computers running Mac Operating Systems such as Macbook, Chromebook computers running Chrome Operating Systems such as Google Pixelbook or any device running Linux Operating Systems.
How to Apply
Call 416-415-4726 or see
www.plctechnician.com
.
Contact Us
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Call us at 416-415-4726, or toll-free 1-888-553-5333.
E-mail
info@gbctechtraining.com
.
Course details are available at
plctechnician.com
.
Explore related programs:
Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC) Technician II (Distance Education) (T949)
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Robotics Technician (Distance Education) (T948)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.