Project Management Program (Postgraduate) (B415)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Project Management
Code:
B415
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
8 months (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,244.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,854.00 **
Centre:
Business
School:
Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Simulated Learning Environment
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Business Administration – Project Management (with work experience) (B156)
Human Resources Management (Postgraduate) (B408)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Graduates of the
Project Management
graduate certificate program in Toronto will be prepared to manage project scope and change, provide innovation and goal-setting, project control, project staffing, risk management, utilize project management tools and perform other functions in careers that incorporate project management or in stand-alone project manager positions. Graduates will have demonstrated their knowledge, job skills, soft skills and abilities related to business in general and project management in particular.
Full Description
As a graduate of the
Project Management
graduate certificate program, you will be prepared to manage project scope and change, provide goal setting, project control, project staffing, risk management, utilize project management tools and perform other functions in careers that incorporate project management or in stand-alone project manager positions.
This learning experience will enable you to demonstrate:
Implementation of Project Management Institute knowledge areas such as processes, lifecycle phases and the embodied concepts, tools and techniques in order to achieve project success.
Adaptation of projects in response to issues that arise internally and externally.
Implementation of general business concepts, practices and tools to facilitate project success.
Application of project management practices to the launch of new programs, initiatives, products, services and events relative to the needs of stakeholders.
This program is also offered in the fully online format. Students who wish to apply for
Project Management Online Postgraduate Program
, should apply to
B425
.
This
Centre for Business
program is part of our
School of Management
.
Your Field Education Options
Students will take a field-based, application-driven course where they participate in the coordination and execution of a real industry project. Leveraging learning from their project management courses, students can expect to gain experience in the following areas:
defining requirements
creating project plans
tracking budgets
co-ordinating meetings
monitoring progress
assessing risks
managing stakeholders
implementing management tools
preparing reports
conducting themselves in a professional manner
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates will be ready to lead or support various projects. Potential positions may include:
Junior Project Manager
Team Leader
Project Coordinator
Project Administrator
Project Analyst
Industry
Industry Feedback:
"George Brown's Project Management field education course has allowed us to work with students on new projects that would have otherwise been delayed. The PM students, who had great talents and a diverse work and academic background, used their project management tools and planning processes skills to help the
Retail Council of Canada
develop important operational procedures in membership and event management.
"I would strongly recommend private and not-for-profit businesses take advantage of this valuable program that offers students real-life projects to test their skills for a career in project management and that also benefit participating companies."
Diane J. Brisebois
, president & CEO, Retail Council of Canada
PMP and CAPM Certifications
George Brown College is recognized as a Global Registered Education Provider with the
Project Management Institute
(PMI
®
). Graduates of any of the George Brown College courses listed on PMI’s Registered Education Provider
portal
will have satisfied the education requirements necessary to apply to the Project Management Institute (PMI
®
) for either the Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM
®
) or the Project Management Professional (PMP
®
) certification.
PMI
®
, PMP
®
and CAPM
®
are registered marks of the Project Management Institute, Inc.
Project Management Professional (PMP)
®
The PMI’s PMP certification is an important industry-recognized certification for project managers. To apply for the PMP, you need to have either:
A secondary degree (high school diploma, associate’s degree, or the global equivalent) with at least five years of project management experience, with 7,500 hours leading and directing projects and 35 hours of project management education. You will well exceed the 35 hours' education requirement upon completion of the B415 Project Management Program.
OR
A four-year degree (bachelor’s degree or the global equivalent) and at least three years of project management experience, with 4,500 hours leading and directing projects and 35 hours of project management education. You will well exceed the 35 hours' education requirement upon completion of the B415 Project Management Program.
Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM)
®
PMI’s Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM)® is an entry-level certification for project practitioners. To apply for the CAPM, you need to have: A secondary degree (high school diploma or the global equivalent) and at least 1,500 hours of project experience, OR 23 hours of project management education by the time you sit for the exam. You will well exceed the 35 hours' education requirement upon completion of the B415 Project Management Program. The CAPM exam is 150 multiple-choice questions.
Although the B415 Program is not a preparation course for writing the PMP or CAPM exams, these exams draw on materials found in the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK version 6), which is published by the Project Management Institute (PMI). The course materials in the B415 program are also based on information found in PMBOK version 6. Therefore, the B415 Project Management Program will assist students preparing for the PMP or CAPM exams, by learning tools, techniques and concepts directly related to questions that appear on the PMP and CAPM exams.
Educational Pathways
For information on future study options, see our
transfer guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner 2023-2024
In order to graduate from the
B415 program
, you need to complete
9
mandatory courses.
SEMESTER 1
Week 1–14
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
MGMT 4017
Organizational Behaviour
NONE
MGMT 4066
AGILE Project Management
NONE
Week 1–7
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
MGMT 4015
Scope and Quality Management
NONE
MGMT 4019
Risk Management
NONE
Week 8–14
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
MGMT 4085
Schedule and Cost Management
NONE
MGMT 4057
Project Planning and Client Management
NONE
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
MGMT 4037
Project Management Case Studies
Completion of Semester 1
MGMT 4080
Business Acumen and Strategy Development
Completion of Semester 1
MGMT 4081
Project Management Simulation
Completion of Semester 1
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Manage the scope, cost, timing, and quality of the project, at all times focused on project success as defined by project stakeholders.
Align the project to the organization's strategic plans and business justification throughout its lifecycle.
Identify project goals, constraints, deliverables, performance criteria, control needs, and resource requirements in consultation with stakeholders.
Implement the PMI project management knowledge areas, processes, lifecycle phases and the embodied concepts, tools and techniques in order to achieve project success.
Adapt projects in response to issues that arise internally and externally.
Interact with team and stakeholders in a professional manner, respecting differences, to ensure a collaborative project environment.
Utilize technology tools for communication, collaboration, information management and decision support.
Implement general business concepts, practices and tools to facilitate project success.
Reflect on their role and effectiveness as a leader and follower.
Apply appropriate legal and ethical standards.
Adapt project management practices to meet the needs of stakeholders from multiple sectors of the economy (i.e., manufacturing, technology, consulting, government, arts, media and not-for-profit organizations).
Apply project management practices to the launch of new programs, initiatives, products, services and events relative to the needs of stakeholders.
Appraise the role of project management in organizational change.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,244.00 *
International Tuition
$17,854.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
College advanced diploma (three-year) or bachelor's degree or demonstrated, relevant work experience (resumé and references required).
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission. In addition, applicants who are considered for admission to the program based solely on their work experience will be required to provide proof of English proficiency at the college level, and may be required to write the George Brown College English admission assessment
Please review our
English proficiency requirements
for more details.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
Project Management (B415)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the program co-ordinator:
Saifur Rahman,
program co-ordinator
Email:
mdsaifur.rahman@georgebrown.ca
Social Channels:
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Management
and classes usually take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also take our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Business Administration – Project Management (with work experience) (B156)
Human Resources Management (Postgraduate) (B408)
All professors at George Brown College were very professional and helpful. I learned a lot from them: how to implement projects, how to plan and monitor them, and finally, how to close projects. One of the most important learnings of the program was how to communicate with clients and stakeholders at a high level. I enjoyed the studying process a lot. The network that I’ve earned while studying helped me get a job after graduation.
Vakhid Mamedov
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.