Registered Practical Nursing - Perioperative Program (Postgraduate) (S425)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Registered Practical Nursing - Perioperative
Code:
S425
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 semester (14 weeks)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,526.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Clinical Placement
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care (Postgraduate) (S417)
RPN Bridge to BScN (Postgraduate) (S442)
Recreation Management in Gerontology (C152)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
George Brown College's Registered Practical Nursing – Perioperative (S425) program
prepares RPNs with the foundational theoretical and technical skills needed to work within their scope of practice in a perioperative setting. This program includes a theory and clinical practicum component.
Full Description
George Brown College's Registered Practical Nursing – Perioperative
postgraduate program is designed to teach RPNs the skills required to work as part of a perioperative team in a perioperative setting at a beginner level. The program utilizes current perioperative nursing research and strictly adheres to the Operating Room Nurses Association of Canada (ORNAC) Standards of Practice.
Students will learn operating room principles and practice considerations for all surgical specialties. This includes the study of relevant anatomy, surgical modalities, surgical instrumentation and the nursing process of caring for perioperative patients.
Each student will complete a clinical practicum in an operating room with an emphasis on the scrub nurse role in various surgical specialties.
Course Delivery
This course will be delivered through multimodal learning and will include:
synchronous and asynchronous in-class and online theory
lab skills and simulations
a clinical practicum experience
The program is organized in two phases.
Phase I: Nursing Theory and Lab Skills
During the first five weeks of this program, student will learn:
current ORNAC standards, principles and applications
practice considerations for all surgical specialties
surgical anatomy, modalities and instrumentation
role of the scrub nurse
clinical lab skills delivered in George Brown College's Operating Room Simulation Centre
Phase II: Clinical Practicum
Students will consolidate operating room theory and principles and will complete an eight-week (320-hour) clinical placement at a designated hospital facility.
This clinical practicum includes:
development of the scrub nurse role
exposure to various surgical specialties (i.e. General Surgery, Urology, Gynecology, Plastic Surgery, ENT and Orthopedic Surgery)
safe and professional practice
introduction to the circulating role (hospital site dependent)
While in the clinical setting, students will participate in online discussions through live video conferences and complete clinical assignments as per the course syllabus.
Clinical experiences are coordinated by the program co-ordinator at hospitals in and outside of the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), or at the hospital where the student currently works. Sponsored (hired) students will complete their clinical placements at the hospital where they are employed.
PLEASE NOTE:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of the Registered Practical Nursing – Perioperative postgraduate program will have the necessary skills required to work as part of a perioperative team in a perioperative setting at a beginner level.
This program offers RPNs an opportunity to specialize in perioperative nursing. In recent years, more acute care centres are adding RPN positions to their operating rooms' staffing skills mix.
Courses
Required Courses
Semester 1
Code
Course name
NURS 4100
Operating Room Principles and Practices I
NURS 4101
Operating Room Principles and Practices II
NURS 4102
Operating Room Principles and Practices III
NURS 4103
Operating Room Principles and Practices IV
NURS 4104
Registered Practical Nurse Operating Room Practicum
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
Graduates of the program will demonstrate the following skills, knowledge and attitudes:
Complete all work as a member of a surgical team in a legal, ethical, competent, and professional manner to ensure best practice in client care.
Contribute to the provision of nursing care to persons undergoing surgery by following the standards of practice of the Operating Room Nurses Association of Canada (ORNAC).
Maintain collaborative interprofessional relationships that support operating room services.
Identify and respond appropriately within the scope of practice to changes in human behaviour due to the effects of illness, stress and fatigue of an individual and/or significant others.
Utilize aseptic techniques with all tasks related to surgical procedures, patient care, and other departmental functions to help prevent post-operative complications.
Use and maintain instruments, special equipment, and supplies used for basic surgical procedures in order to promote a safe working environment for self and others.
Utilize personal strategies to maintain, improve and promote professional competence and development within the role of operating room practical nurse.
Apply theory, principles and evidence-informed practice to operating room nursing to ensure best practice in perioperative patient care, procedure delivery and patient safety.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,526.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for
one semester
of the program starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
The program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
RPN
Certificate Of Competence, College of Nurses of Ontario,
without practice restrictions
BCLS (Heart and Stroke Foundation) HCP level
current resumé
recommended one year of medical surgical experience (not required)
This program is open to both non-sponsored (independent) and sponsored student applicants.
Independent Student:
independent application and tuition fees
not hired by a clinical agency
a clinical placement is arranged at an affiliate hospital by the program co-ordinator
must complete the pre-placement health form requirements and VSS upon program acceptance
Sponsored Student:
hired by the clinical agency (prior to) applying to the program
program fees may or may not be covered based on hiring contract details from the clinical agency
clinical placement is completed at the hospital student is employed
If you would like more information about sponsorship to this program and how to meet the admission requirements, please contact
nursing@georgebrown.ca
.
This program is open to domestic applicants only.
Special Requirements
Pre-Placement Health Form
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet all the mandatory pre-placement health requirements for the program. It may take up to four months to complete all the requirements.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
For further details and to download the mandatory pre-placement health form, go to the
Pre-placement webpage
.
Students must attend mandatory computer training at their clinical site.
Students must submit proof of a satisfactory medical examination before entering field placement. Students who are unable to provide a clear medical examination result to the college will not be able to start their field placement and therefore will be unable to complete the program.
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a Police Vulnerable Sector Check completed, and this check must be renewed annually before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Police Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Police Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Police Vulnerable Sector Check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the police record check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Pre-placement website
.
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students apply through
Ontario Colleges
.
Contact Us
Contact
Chelsea Ovosonka
, program co-ordinator and professor, at the George Brown College Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing at 416-415-5000, ext. 2349 or email
Chelsea.Ovsonka@georgebrown.ca
for more information.
For general information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care (Postgraduate) (S417)
RPN Bridge to BScN (Postgraduate) (S442)
Recreation Management in Gerontology (C152)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.