Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing Program (Postgraduate) (S402)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing
Code:
S402
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 semester
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$2,287.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Not Available
Winter
2024
Closed
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing registered nurses to work in hospital critical care units for over 40 years.
Program Overview
George Brown College's Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing (S402)
program is a one-semester postgraduate certificate program that prepares registered nurses to provide safe competent care to critically ill individuals and their families.
Full Description
George Brown College's Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing (S402)
is a one-semester postgraduate program that prepares registered nurses to give competent care to critically ill individuals and their families.
The combined theory and clinical courses encompass the
Level 1, 2 and 3 Critical Care Standards of Practice
as outlined by the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care and Critical Care Nursing Standards from Ministry of Colleges and Universities (MCU).
This program is offered at the Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences at the Waterfront Campus.
Structured clinical courses provide nurses with a safe learning environment to practise critical care knowledge, skills and judgment in critical care units across the Greater Toronto Area.
Due to the limited number of clinical placements available, this program has a restricted number of seats open to applicants.
PLEASE NOTE:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
Your Field Education Options
Clinical placement is a key component of the Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing program.
Placements are conducted with a partner hospital in their critical care unit. Students will be expected to spend 232 hours in a critical care environment under the supervision of a preceptor and a clinical facilitator as a requirement to complete the program.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Registered Nurse - Critical Care Nursing (S402) graduates are prepared to work in a variety of critical care units including:
medical-surgical
neuro-surgical
trauma
coronary
cardiovascular
Many hospitals have chosen our program (through sponsorship) to prepare their nurses for working in this dynamic specialty field.
Courses
Required Courses
Code
Course Name
NURS 4059
Critical Care Nursing – Theory and Labs
NURS 4042
Critical Care Nursing – Practicum-General
NURS 4043
Critical Care Nursing – Theory (Advanced)
NURS 4044
Critical Care Nursing – Practicum (Advanced)
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Practice within the scope of professional, legal and ethical standards, organization policies and best practices in critical care nursing.
Establish and maintain therapeutic relationships with patients, families and/or substitute decision-makers to optimize patient and family-centred critical care.
Assess, analyze and monitor data for patients with complex, multi-system problems in order to anticipate early deterioration in patient’s condition, establish priorities and to plan interventions.
Plan, implement, evaluate and document specialized nursing interventions to achieve optimal patient outcomes in potential or actual life threatening illness and end-of-life situations.
Advocate for and deliver patient and family-centred care to patients/families experiencing potential or actual life-threatening illness and end-of-life situations.
Collaborate with members of the interprofessional health-care team in providing care for patients experiencing potential or actual life-threatening illness and end-of-life situations to achieve continuity of care and optimal patient outcomes.
Use evidence-based research and best practice guidelines to inform and adapt critical care nursing practice.
Use strategies and available resources to respond to environmental, physical and psychosocial stressors affecting self and others in the critical care setting.
Engage in reflective practice and ongoing professional development to enhance competence in critical care nursing.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$2,287.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for
one semester
of the program starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
RN
, Certificate of Competence, College of Nurses of Ontario
without practice restrictions
, and BCLS (Heart and Stroke Foundation), HCP Level
one year of acute care nursing experience in Ontario
Only sponsored applicants are eligible to apply to this program.
If you would like more information about sponsorship to this program and how to meet the admission requirements please contact
nursing@georgebrown.ca
.
This program is open to domestic applicants only.
Special Requirements
Students are required to complete the following prerequisites before starting field placement:
complete a hospital occupational health clearance
attend computer training, as required by your institution
submit a copy of your BCLS certification, valid for the duration of the program
Students who lack any of the prerequisites or hospital specific requirements will be withdrawn from the program. Students must pass all prerequisite courses in order to progress in the program.
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
For more information on this program, please contact:
Anisa Khan
416-415-5000, ext. 2860
akhan@georgebrown.ca
or
Colleen Alleyne
416-415-5000, ext. 5824
calleyne3@georgebrown.ca
For general information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.