Registered Nurse – Operating Room Perioperative Nursing Program (Postgraduate) (S414)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Registered Nurse – Operating Room Perioperative Nursing
Code:
S414
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 semester
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$2,301.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Clinical Placement
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1: Externship
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Not Available
Winter
2024
Closed
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing (Postgraduate) (S402)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing Registered Nurses to work in the operating room for over 40 years.
George Brown offers the only full-time 14-week
Operating Room Nurses Association of Canada (ORNAC)
approved course in Ontario.
Program Overview
George Brown College's Registered Nurse – Operating Room Perioperative Nursing (S414)
prepares the Registered Nurse with the theoretical and technical skills required to work as an operating room nurse. This program includes a theory and clinical practice component.
Full Description
George Brown College's Registered Nurse – Operating Room Perioperative Nursing (S414)
is an
ORNAC-
approved (2021) accredited postgraduate program that utilizes current perioperative nursing research and strictly adheres to the ORNAC Standards of Practice.
This program prepares the Registered Nurse to practise at a beginner level in the perioperative setting. Students will learn operating room principles and practice considerations for all surgical specialties.
This includes:
the study of relevant anatomy
surgical modalities
surgical instrumentation
the nursing process of caring for perioperative patients
simulated lab practice to consolidate the development of the scrub and circulating nurse roles
Each student will complete a clinical practicum in an operating room with an emphasis on both roles in various surgical specialties.
Course Delivery
This course will be delivered through multimodal learning and will include:
synchronous and asynchronous in class and online theory
lab skills and simulations
a clinical practical experience
The program is organized in two phases.
Phase I: Nursing 4045: Nursing Theory and Lab Skills
During the first five weeks of this program, students will learn:
current ORNAC standards, principles and applications
surgical anatomy and instrumentation
intensive study of surgical interventions and surgical technologies
role of the scrub nurse
role of the circulating nurse
clinical lab skills delivered at George Brown's Operating Room in our accredited Simulation Centre
Phase II: Nursing 4046: Clinical Practicum
During the second phase of this program, students will consolidate operating room theory and principles at a designated hospital facility during an eight-week (320-hour) clinical placement.
This includes:
development of the scrub nurse role
development of the circulating nurse role
exposure to various surgical specialties (i.e. General Surgery, Urology, Gynecology, Plastic Surgery, ENT and Orthopedic Surgery)
safe and professional practice
While in the clinical setting, students will participate in online discussions through live video conferences and complete clinical assignments as per the course syllabus.
Clinical experiences are co-ordinated by the program co-ordinator at hospitals in and outside of the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), or at the hospital where the student currently works. Sponsored (hired) students will complete their clinical placements at the hospital where they are employed.
PLEASE NOTE:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Educational Pathways
Students who complete
George Brown's  Registered Nurse – Operating Room Perioperative Nursing
postgraduate certificate program are eligible to submit the Course Curriculum Outline from the year the program was taken.
Students may apply for a transfer credit toward the Post-Diploma B.Sc.N. program at Toronto Metropolitan University.
For further information, see the
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
Code
Course Name
NURS 4045
Operating Room Nursing – Theory and Labs
NURS 4046
Operating Room Nursing – Practicum
Note: Due to ongoing program improvements, courses are subject to change without notice.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Practice in a professional manner, within the legislated, ethical frameworks and exhibit cultural sensitivity in diverse clinical settings.
Develop and sustain therapeutic relationships with surgical clients and their families.
Communicate effectively with surgical clients, health-care team members and others.
Participate effectively as a team member to support surgical clients’ achievement of their expected outcome.
Integrate theory, principles and concepts into competent surgical nursing practice.
Complete health assessments in a holistic, comprehensive and analytical manner.
Prioritize and organize nursing health care.
Implement and evaluate nursing interventions competently.
Use a variety of technological tools to support surgical clients’ achievement of their expected health outcomes.
Apply principles of teaching-learning to promote surgical clients’ health and wellness.
Practice according to the Standards of Practice of Operating Room Nurses Association of Canada, the College of Nurses of Ontario and The Canadian Nurses’ Association.
Emphasize sustainable practices minimizing the environmental footprint consistent with the highest standards of practice in the perioperative setting.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$2,301.00 *
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for
one semester
of the program starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
RNs registered to practise in Ontario and employed in a Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care (MOHLTC) priority area may be eligible for a Nursing Education Initiative (NEI) grant to support their education and professional development. To learn more about this program, visit
rnao.ca/education-funding/nei
.
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
RN
, Certificate of Competence, College of Nurses of Ontario without practice restrictions
BCLS (Heart and Stroke Foundation), HCP Level
current resumé
interview by telephone
recommended two years of surgical nursing experience in the hospital setting. No operating-room experience is necessary
This program is open to both non-sponsored (independent) and sponsored student applicants.
Independent Student:
independent application and tuition fees
not hired by a clinical agency
a clinical placement is arranged at an affiliate hospital by the program co-ordinator
must complete the pre-placement health form requirements and VSS upon program acceptance
Sponsored Student:
hired by the clinical agency (prior to) applying to the program
program fees may or may not be covered based on hiring contract details from the clinical agency
clinical placement is completed at the hospital student is employed
If you would like more information about sponsorship to this program and how to meet the admission requirements please contact
nursing@georgebrown.ca
.
This program is open to domestic applicants only.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
Special Requirements
Pre-placement Health Form
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet all the mandatory pre-placement health requirements for the program. It may take up to four months to complete all the requirements.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
For further details and to download the mandatory pre-placement health form, go to the
Pre-placement website.
Students must submit proof of a satisfactory medical examination before entering field placement. Students who are unable to provide a clear medical examination result to the college will not be able to start their field placement and therefore will be unable to complete the program.
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a Police Vulnerable Sector Check completed, and this check must be renewed annually before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Police Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Police Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Police Vulnerable Sector Check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the police record check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Pre-placement website.
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students can apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Please note:
Due to the limited number of clinical placements available, this program has a limited number of seats open to applicants lacking specific clinical experience. Please contact
nursing@georgebrown.ca
for more details before applying.
Contact Us
Contact
Chelsea Ovsonka, program co-ordinator
at the
George Brown College Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
at
416-415-5000, ext. 2349
or
email
chelsea.ovsonka@georgebrown.ca
for more information.
For general information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing (Postgraduate) (S402)
"The Registered Nurse – Operating Room Perioperative Nursing program provided me with the theory and skills in order to provide safe and effective patient care in a surgical setting. By practicing each new skill in the Simulation Centre, I was able to add on to my skill set and feel confident entering my 8-week clinical placement. We were given the knowledge and hands-on skills required in order to work alongside surgeons, anesthesiologists, RNFAs and other healthcare professionals in a fast-paced environment."
Mathumesa Muhunthan
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.