Restorative Dental Hygiene Program (Postgraduate) (S400)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Restorative Dental Hygiene
Code:
S400
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 semesters, September to April
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$18,363.00 * †
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Dental Health
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Experience
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Restorative Dental Hygiene (Postgraduate) (S400)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Dental Technology (S100)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing graduates to work as restorative dental hygienists for over 40 years.
This is the only full-time Restorative Dental Hygiene program available in Ontario.
Program Overview
Restorative Dental Hygiene is a two-semester graduate certificate program open to registered dental hygienists who have a minimum of one year of work experience. Students will learn how to perform advanced restorative procedures and preventive measures. Those interested in advancing their skill set and expanding their scope of clinical practice should consider this program.
Full Description
Restorative Dental Hygiene
is a two-semester program designed for experienced registered dental hygienists looking to advance their skill set and expand their scope of clinical practice. Students will learn to work with a broader dental team and how to treat clients with diverse oral health care needs by providing advanced restorative procedures and preventative measures. Adding these expanded skills can increase earning potential. Classes in this program have been consolidated to three days per week to accommodate working dental hygienists. This full-time, hybrid program is OSAP eligible.
To qualify for this program, you must be actively registered to practice dental hygiene with the
College of Dental Hygienists of Ontario
and have a minimum of one year of dental hygiene work experience. Upon successful completion, graduates simply apply to the CDHO for designation. No additional national competency exam is required.
In compliance with the standards of practice approved by the College of Dental Hygienists of Ontario, students will learn to:
apply bonding systems and required liners
place and finish composite and amalgam restorations
take final impressions
fabricate and cement provisional restorations
cement and bond indirect restorations
Learning takes place in co-ordination with
Dental Technology
,
Denturism
and
Dental Assisting
students.
Students practice various procedures on a manikin, after which they provide services in our on-site
WAVE Dental Clinic
, performing
restorative
and
cosmetic procedures
on clients.
Dental Hygiene graduates interested in furthering their career beyond clinical practice should consider applying to our NEW Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene) (S305) fully online program. This degree completion program is the first of its kind in Ontario! In just three-semesters you will earn a degree focused on subject matter that is specific to the field of Dental Hygiene. Visit our
Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene) (S305) page
for more info.
Your Field Education Options
Clinical experience is a key component of this program because it helps students gain confidence in their skills as they expand their scope of practice to include the more complex care needs delivered by a qualified Restorative Dental Hygienist.
During semester 1, students focus on developing pre-clinical placement skills and practice restorative skills exclusively on manikins.
In semester 2, students will get hands-on practice performing restorative procedures working with clients on-site at our nearly 40,000 square foot WAVE Dental Clinic under the supervision of qualified oral health-care professionals.
Observation of a restorative dental hygienist also takes place off-site with their current employer and/or a community field placement partner, upon approval by faculty.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates are employed as restorative dental hygienists in:
private practice
public health services
hospitals
the dental industry
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
DENT 1087
Science of Dental Materials
HSTL 4001
Advanced Dental Histology and Embryology
DENT 1086
Pre-Clinical Techniques I
DENT 1085
Occlusion and Bioesthetics
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
DENT 1088
Pre-Clinical Techniques II
DENT 1089
Clinical Techniques – Theory
DENT 1090
Clinical Techniques – Practical
DENT 1091
Field Placement
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Research, evaluate and discuss currently available restorative dental materials and analyze information on materials and techniques.
Predict the histological effect of restorative dental materials through the analysis of their chemical properties.
Integrate the basics of growth, development, malocclusion and tooth movement into functional occlusion.
Determine, place and finish the appropriate materials for proposed restorations that best meet the needs of the client.
Perform accepted mercury hygiene procedures as required, having determined the advantages and disadvantages in relation to each client.
Analyze and integrate the relationship of coronal anatomy, functional occlusion, aesthetics and the protection of the periodontium to create an ideal restoration.
Compare dental materials and techniques to determine the appropriate materials for fabrication of indirect and provisional restorations.
Contribute to client and personal safety in all aspects of work in the dental environment.
Perform all clinical procedures within the current scope of practice of the restorative dental hygienist collaborating with other health-care professionals.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$18,363.00 * †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the two semesters of the program starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
† There will be additional costs to the program including textbooks, appropriate laboratory/clinical attire and personal protective equipment. There is a minimal fee charged to the student for equipment on loan during the academic year.
Please note: This program does not accept international students. Applicants must be registered as a dental hygienist in the province of Ontario.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
active registrant with the College of Dental Hygienists of Ontario (CDHO).
minimum one year of dental hygiene clinical experience (verification of current employment required) and resumé
interview for qualified applicants only
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
Special Requirements
MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS FOR S400
Pre-placement Health Form
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet all the mandatory pre-placement health requirements for the program. It may take up to four months to complete all the requirements.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
For further details and to download the mandatory pre-placement health form, go to the
Pre-placement website
.
Police Vulnerable Sector Check (must be valid annually)
In compliance with the requirements of our onsite clinic and our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a Police Vulnerable Sector Check completed, and this check must be renewed annually before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Police Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months.
This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered "vulnerable persons" under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for "individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s)."
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Police Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a "clear" Police Vulnerable Sector Check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a "not clear" status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the police record check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Pre-placement website
.
Covid-19 vaccination is highly recommended for oral health care workers and those working with vulnerable populations. Hospitals, long term care facilities and some community agencies continue to require COVID-19 vaccines for placements.  Students who are not vaccinated may not be able to attend external clinical or field placements. As a result, this may pose a risk of meeting the requirements for program completion.
The onsite WAVE (Wellness, Applied Learning, Visionary, Education) dental clinic will not require vaccination but is highly recommended. Use of PPE will be required in all onsite clinics.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Contact the
program co-ordinator, Melissa Crawford
, at 416-415-5000, ext. 4555 or by email at
mcrawfor@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Restorative Dental Hygiene (Postgraduate) (S400)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Dental Technology (S100)
“I’ve been in dental for 22 years and going back to school was one of the best decisions I have ever made. The Restorative Dental Hygiene program at George Brown College has been an amazing experience, with curriculum that incorporates all the skills needed to be successful in any dental practice. The instructors have been some of the best I’ve ever had. In the clinic they were both helpful and insightful in their constructive pointers on how to succeed by putting the theory learned in the classroom into practice when working on live patients. I feel privileged that I was able to partake in this course.”
Melanie Bianco
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.