Robotics Technician Program (Distance Education) (T948)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Robotics Technician
Code:
T948
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Part-time
Duration:
28 weeks (approximately)
Starting Months:
Open enrolment
Domestic Tuition:
$1,660.00*
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Online
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Continuous Open Enrollment
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Winter
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Spring
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation (T171)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program
does not qualify for study/work permit (including PGWP) eligibility in Canada.
Complete this comprehensive Robotics Technician training program using an interactive learning package. This certificate program introduces the concepts of industrial robots and explains how they are used in a plant or manufacturing system. The primary focus of the program is on automated manufacturing processes, as well as the role of robots and their support equipment. Receive instruction in both theoretical concepts and laboratory exercises using a combination of multimedia learning resources and a robotics simulation software package.
Full Description
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program
does not qualify for study/work permit (including PGWP) eligibility in Canada.
The primary focus of the program is on automated manufacturing processes, as well as the role of robots and their support equipment. Learn to program, test and debug robot programs.
Areas of study include:
motion programming
palletizing
conveyor systems
computer networking
automated sorting systems
vision and tactile sensors
computer integration
This Distance Education program provides you with an easy-to-use, home-study approach that requires only a personal computer and an Internet connection; you do not need expensive books or lab equipment. The robotics simulation software essentially converts your computer into a virtual industrial robot, complete with a three-dimensional learning environment that includes manufacturing plants and control systems.
The learning materials, provided in a web-based downloadable file format, with 14 courses (modules) contain text, audio, 2D and 3D animations, computer-based testing and RoboLogix simulation software.
You may enrol in the program at any time (open enrolment). Complete each module (course) in your own time. The typical completion time is 28 weeks, but there are no time limits (and previous electronics and/or robotics/automation experience and education may reduce that time significantly).
PREREQUISITES
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (with credits at or above the general level) or equivalent or mature student status. An electronics background is helpful but not essential.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
This program prepares you to install, service, maintain, troubleshoot and repair robots and automated production systems (mechanical and electrical). The skills acquired through this program enable you to work closely with designers, engineers and technologists, and to be involved in the developing, testing, programming and on-site installation of new robots. The training and knowledge you gain from this program will allow you to work as a robotics trainer and to train others to install, use and maintain robots.
Courses
Required Courses
The modules should be taken in the following order:
COMPULSORY (14)
CODE
Course Name
ELNC 9101
Introduction to Robotics
ELNC 9103
Robot Classifications
ELNC 9108
Manipulators and End Effectors
ELNC 9102
Robot Drive Systems
ELNC 9106
Servo Systems
ELNC 9105
Payload, Repeatability and Accuracy
ELNC 9107
Object Detection
ELNC 9112
Vision, Touch and Sound
ELNC 9113
Robot Programming
ELNC 9111
Robot Safety
ELNC 9110
Communications
ELNC 9109
Applications
ELNC 9104
Artificial Intelligence
ELNC 9121
Autonomous Robots
Detailed course outline
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$1,660.00*
Additional Costs
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
There is no additional cost. Students can pay tuition in full or pay-as-you-learn option as below.
Initial registration is $490 (includes all learning materials, laboratory simulation software, user guide and Module 1) and registration for each of the remaining 13 modules is $90/module. Students may register for one or more modules at any time. International applicants are charged the same fees but in U.S. dollars (US$490); the posted exchange rate in effect at the time of your registration will be used to determine the final fee in Canadian dollars. There is no refund on learning material.
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition for programs starting in
Fall 2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older)
Special Requirements
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Minimum system requirements
Pentium-based PC or equivalent
minimum 512MB RAM (1GB recommended)
minimum 250MB available hard disk space
Windows 7/8/8.1/10/11
email account
Internet access
32- and 64-bit compatible
Note: Our program software is strictly made for Windows Operating Systems and will therefore only run on Windows-based computers. It will
NOT
work on Apple computers running Mac Operating Systems such as Macbook, Chromebook computers running Chrome Operating Systems such as Google Pixelbook or any device running Linux Operating Systems.
How to Apply
Call 416-415-4726 or see
www.onlinerobotics.com
.
Contact Us
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Call us at 416-415-4726, or toll-free 1-888-553-5333.
E-mail:
info@gbctechtraining.com
.
Check out the course details along with our interactive video tour at
onlinerobotics.com
.
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation (T171)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.