RPN Bridge to BScN Program (Postgraduate) (S442)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
RPN Bridge to BScN
Code:
S442
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 semesters
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$6,773.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Clinical Placement
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: Other
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
George Brown College's R.P.N. Bridge to B.Sc.N. (S442)
two-semester bridging program provides registered practical nurses (RPNs) with the knowledge and skills necessary to enter Trent University's B.Sc.N  degree program offered on-site at George Brown.
Full Description
George Brown College's R.P.N. Bridge to B.Sc.N (S442)
bridging program offers Registered Practical Nurses (RPNs) the knowledge and skills necessary to enter Trent University's B.Sc.N degree program. To be eligible, RPNs must have graduated from a two-year diploma program in Ontario with a minimum 75% cumulative program average.
Upon successful completion of this two-semester bridging course, students can then apply to enter Trent's nursing degree program delivered on-site at George Brown’s Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences located at our
Waterfront Campus
.
DELIVERY OF PROGRAM
The RPN Bridge program is offered through a full-time flexible delivery model and is delivered in a hybrid format that includes both in-class and online learning.
The semesters are delivered consecutively with semester 1 starting in September, and semester 2 starting in January.
Your Field Education Options
Clinical placement plays an important role in this R.P.N. Bridge to B.Sc.N. program by giving students the opportunity to apply their newly learned skills and to help broaden their professional network. The clinical placement experience will take place in a simulated clinical environment or within a healthcare organization.
Students will be expected to attend their placement each week during semester 2 of the program.
PLEASE NOTE:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Educational Pathways
Students who successfully complete the R.P.N. Bridge to B.Sc.N. Bridge program will be eligible to apply to Trent University’s post-bridge nursing degree program delivered on-site at George Brown College's Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences.
NOTE: This program is offered under the terms of the Trent-George Brown College Agreement. Therefore, request for transfer to the Trent campus cannot be considered.
To be eligible for admission to Trent University’s Post-Bridge BScN Pathway, you must:
Have met the (S442) Bridge program admission criteria
and
Have graduated from the approved RPN Bridge to BScN (S442) certificate program with a minimum cumulative program average grade of 75 per cent and not less than 70 per cent grade in any course of the Bridge program for which advanced standing credit is assigned by Trent University.
The Post-Bridge B.Sc.N. pathway at Trent University, leading to an honours degree in Nursing (B.Sc.N.), consists of 20 credits. Upon completion of their RPN and approved bridge programs, students will normally have completed and received transfer credits. Students who study full-time will study for five consecutive semesters (19 months), and part-time students will study for eight consecutive semesters.
For details about the Trent Post-Bridge B.Sc.N. program, visit
Trent's website
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
NURS 1093
Becoming an Ethical Practitioner
NURS 1095
Nursing Informatics in the Health-Care Information Age
NURS 1096
Introduction to Nursing Research
NURS 1072
Critical Thinking to Scholarly Writing
NURS 1074
Theoretical Foundations of Nursing
NURS 1106
Health Assessment
One University Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
NURS 1101
Pathophysiology & Pharmacology
NURS 1084
Family and Relational Inquiry
NURS 1094
Transition to Clinical Leadership
NURS 1102
Clinical Practice
NURS 1103
Psychology – Adult Development
One University Elective
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Apply the following skills and competencies to facilitate professional accountability, collaboration, leadership, continuing competence and the practice of nursing:
communicate effectively verbally and in writing, using interpersonal skills to assume a leadership role on the clinical team
demonstrate novice-level scholarly writing
collaborate with the interprofessional team
integrate information standards, technology and information literacy tools to facilitate both client care and professional self-development
demonstrate social responsibility and advocacy for individuals, families, groups and communities in various practice situations and settings
2. Examine the basic language and goal of research, and the implication of research findings for nursing practice.
3. Demonstrate holistic, patient/family-centered care across the lifespan and continuum of care in various practice situations and settings.
4. Apply theoretical knowledge, critical thinking and problem-solving in a variety of increasingly complex health care practice situations.
5. Demonstrate safe, effective, ethical and culturally sensitive nursing care that meets the current College of Nurses’ Professional Standards for Registered Nurses.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$6,773.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
International students: This program is open to domestic applicants only.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses and the selection criteria outlined below:
Registered practical nurse (RPN) in good standing with the College of Nurses of Ontario and without practice restrictions.
Graduation from a two-year community college Practical Nursing (PN) diploma program in Ontario with a minimum cumulative program average of 75 per cent with no failed or repeated courses.
Additional Admission Information
Submission of all post-secondary transcripts from Canadian and international educational institutions attended is required for academic performance review.
Applicants with prior university or college study in fields outside of Practical Nursing must present a minimum combined grade point average (CGPA) of 2.33 (C+) and be considered “In Good Standing” with no failures in core prerequisite subjects in order to be considered. Higher CGPAs/averages may be required subject to competition.
Applicants applying with international education must present a course-by-course evaluation from WES or ICAS. Where PASS/FAIL grades are the only grades available, a letter from the issuing academic institution must indicate a minimum score for PASS.
Applicants with PASS/FAIL grades from out-of-province institutions must present a letter from the issuing academic institution to indicate a minimum passing score.
Applicants who have completed a Practical Nursing Certificate to Diploma upgrading program at a recognized community college in Ontario will be considered on an individual basis.
Applicants with prior nursing studies in a Bachelor of Nursing or Bridging program will be considered by the admissions committee on a case-by-case basis regardless of the length of study, or performance in a PN program.
All applicants offered admission require the approval of the admissions committee, comprised of representatives from Trent University and George Brown College, who will provide a detailed evaluation of core course performance and competencies for transfer of credit evaluation.
Applicants who have been absent from full-time formal Practical Nursing, Bridging or BScN education for a period of 10 years will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
This program is open to domestic applicants only.
Special Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and the selection criteria outlined below:
CARDIOPULMONARY RESUSCITATION (CPR) AND FIRST AID CERTIFICATION
Before commencing the clinical practice course, all students must successfully complete:
the approved CPR course (required annually): Basic Cardiac Life Support – Health Care Provider (BCLS – HCP) Level
a Standard First Aid Certificate course
Students will not be eligible to attend the practice area unless they hold current CPR and First Aid certificates.
REQUISITE SKILLS FOR NURSES
Applicants who wish to qualify to become a registered nurse in Ontario should review the requisite skills for nurses listed on the
College of Nurses of Ontario website
.
CLINICAL PRE-PLACEMENT HEALTH FORM REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAM POLICY
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 10 to 12 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres, Tdap shot valid every 10 years and Two Step TB Skin Test), a clear
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year,
CPR level HCP
renewed every year, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the given deadline to
ParaMed.
As a result of the pandemic, clinical placement agencies may have additional requirements in order to be accepted in clinical placement. The Clinical Placement Office will provide students with timely instructions regarding any additional requirements.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations that students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Pre-placement website.
POLICE VULNERABLE SECTOR CHECK (MUST BE RENEWED EVERY YEAR)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a
Police Vulnerable Sector Check
completed, and this check must be renewed annually before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Police Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Police Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Police Vulnerable Sector Check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the police record check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Pre-placement website.
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2367
Email:
nursing@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119)
"My name is Anshumi Joshi and I originally started at George Brown College as a PSW student to get a feel for what nursing could be like. After I finished the PSW program I went on to the Pathway program and then completed the Practical Nursing Program at George Brown College. I’ve been a Practical Nurse for almost 2 years now and during this time completed the Bridge to BScN program, again at George Brown. I’m proud to say that I’ve just entered the Trent University BScN program at the George Brown College site! During this time I had the wonderful opportunity to work as a peer leader with the Student Success Program and more recently as a tutor with Accessibility Services. I hold my journey at George Brown College close to my heart since I have not only always felt incredibly supported by our faculty and student services staff, but I have also made some amazing lifelong nursing friendships. I have been lucky to find people, be it friends or faculty, who are incredibly thoughtful and inspire me with their dedication and work ethic. I will always be grateful for the wonderful experience I’ve had at George Brown College during my time from PSW to BScN student."
Anshumi Joshi
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.