Screenwriting & Narrative Design Program (Online) (Postgraduate) (P410)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Screenwriting & Narrative Design
Code:
P410
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$8,608.00 *
International Tuition:
$26,423.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Media & Performing Arts
Location:
Online
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Online
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: Suspended
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Suspended
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Screenwriting & Narrative Design (Postgraduate) (P400)
Visual Effects (Postgraduate) (P408)
Sound Design & Production (Postgraduate) (P409)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The three-semester Screenwriting & Narrative Design online graduate certificate program provides students with the knowledge, writing experience and hands-on skills necessary to become screenwriters for the ever-evolving media field, as well as narrative designers for game and interactive storytelling worlds.
PLEASE NOTE: there is no ability to transfer into the
in-class
Screenwriting & Narrative Design P400 program after the start date.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This is a 100 per cent online program, irrespective of the current remote delivery for P400 in light of COVID-19 pandemic restrictions. P410 will remain as a permanent online option. Therefore,
students in this program do not come to Canada, and are not eligible for a study permit,
and graduates will not be eligible for a post-graduation work permit upon completion of this program.
Full Description
The
Screenwriting & Narrative Design
program educates students on the challenge of writing a well-structured story within linear and non-linear contexts. The elements of character, dialogue, scene, setting, texture, style and tone are rigorously explored. Students master the subtle variances of language employed through structured and open-world storytelling as they create memorable stories and scripts for film, TV, games and interactive media. Opportunities will be provided to work with fellow students (directors, actors and designers) on student-led projects as well as potential research projects.
Program Requirements
The Screenwriting & Narrative Design program requires students to have access to:
a laptop capable of running Final Draft and MS Office
a Netflix subscription
a stable/high bandwidth Internet connection
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Your Field Education Options
Due to the online nature of this program, there will be no field education component attached to this program.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Creative writers for entertainment are able to move across multiple platforms, including film, television, interactive storytelling, gaming and animation. Potential job titles include:
script writer
assistant producer
advising writer
creative writer
content writer
interactive media writer
staff writer
editor
story editor
showrunner
narrative designer
creative designer
script consultant
story consultant
freelance writer
Industry
Professional storytelling/writing/content development is a highly competitive yet exceptionally rewarding field. Though concentrated around major cities such as Toronto, Vancouver, Los Angeles and New York, the globalization of the industry has meant that writers for media can work on projects all over the world.
As the television and film industries shift in response to changing trends such as online access to traditionally aired content, the industry supplements its series and films with online and interactive content. As the Internet becomes a major gateway for consumers to access traditional media, the industry is becoming increasingly entrepreneurial with the advent of webisodes and web series. These new avenues have opened up a new area of development for the screenwriting field.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
WRIT1001
Intensive – The Writers' Room
WRIT1002
Writers' Studio I
WRIT1003
Story and Character I
WRIT1005
Feature I
WRIT1006
Video Game
WRIT1010
Episodic I
WRIT1017
Entrepreneurship
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
WRIT1004
Story and Character II
WRIT1007
Entertainment Business
WRIT1012
Writers' Studio II
WRIT1015
Feature II
WRIT1016
Interactive
WRIT1020
Episodic II
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
WRIT2001
Thesis Project
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Produce linear and non-linear narrative content to industry standards using current and relevant software.
Create content employing traditional and non‐traditional dramatic narratives with advanced application for entertainment writing within linear and non‐linear mediums.
Articulate the differences between the varying mediums’ production processes and how the writer integrates into each process.
Investigate the varying guilds, associations, agencies and groups and how they interact with relevance to the different industries.
Differentiate the history of film, television, video games and interactive media from other media as well as the intersections between them.
Analyze the evolving landscapes for production, distribution and content creation in order to anticipate challenges and opportunities arising from technological change and consumer demand.
Prepare for employment in the field by evaluating the present business climate of the relevant film, television, video game, online, mobile and interactive industries, and using interview and presentation skills, resumé-writing skills, proposal and pitch development skills and portfolio preparation.
Conduct research using a variety of relevant research methods, including online and library resources to do effective world building and character creation.
Engage and invoke an emotional response from an audience, recognizing and using relevant style and narrative structures including plot analysis, characterization, setting, dialogue, point of view, structure, length and originality.
Evaluate personal and recognized works of entertainment writing for traditional composition techniques including “unity of effect” as these apply to both traditional rhetorical structures and narratives with branching structures and/or multiple narratively coherent conclusions.
Manipulate point of view to develop narratives, analyze form and structure to apply evolving techniques, and compare setting and atmosphere to adjusting narrative time within linear and non-linear narrative.
Assess personal and recognized works of traditional and interactive narratives for techniques in character development exploring limitations presented by traditional techniques in character development for non-linear and participatory character creation.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$8,608.00 *
International Tuition
$26,423.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the
estimated
total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
bachelor’s degree, two- or three-year diploma, or graduate certificate (postgraduate studies)
resumé
writing samples*
online interview**
OR
demonstrated competence through related work experience (minimum three years of experience in the entertainment industry or performing arts)
resumé
writing samples*
online interview**
* Further details on the writing samples will be provided to the applicant via a letter and/or email, once the applicant meets the academic and/or work experience requirements.
** An online interview will be offered to select applicants upon review of writing samples.
Please note that domestic applicants who are submitting international transcripts require a Canadian equivalency evaluation. This can be obtained through
ICAS (International Credential Assessment Service)
at icascanada.ca or
WES (World Education Services)
at wes.org/ca.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English language proficiency test results must test at the College level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission. Applicants who are accepted based on work experience only will be required to take the English Admissions Assessment in order to evaluate the appropriate level of
English language proficiency
.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
International (Visa) Students
This is a 100 per cent online program, irrespective of the current remote delivery for P400 in light of COVID-19 pandemic restrictions. P410 will remain as a permanent online option. Therefore,
students in this program do not come to Canada, and are not eligible for a study permit
, and graduates will not be eligible for a post-graduation work permit upon completion of this program.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International students should apply through our
Online Application System.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Media & Performing Arts
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2015 Email:
media@georgebrown.ca.
For more information, you may also call the George Brown College Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
The
School of Media & Performing Arts
is located at the
St. James Campus
at
230 Richmond Street East
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
.
Explore related programs:
Screenwriting & Narrative Design (Postgraduate) (P400)
Visual Effects (Postgraduate) (P408)
Sound Design & Production (Postgraduate) (P409)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.