Social Service Worker Program (Accelerated) (C135)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Social Service Worker
Code:
C135
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
6 weeks, 8 months (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$3,656.00 * ‡
International Tuition:
$17,313.00 ** ‡
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Social & Community Services
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Education
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 3: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 4: Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Social Service Worker (C119)
Community Worker (C101)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing Social Service Worker graduates to be agents of and allies for change and social justice in diverse communities for over twenty years.
Program Overview
George Brown College's Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
is an innovative program that provides students with the opportunity to learn theoretical models, methods of practice, group facilitation, mental health supports, social innovation and anti-oppressive practice. This is a condensed version (three semesters) of the two-year (C119) program that allows college and university graduates from the social sciences entry into a career in social services.
PLEASE NOTE: If you apply to the 2023/24 intake for this program, you will start in May 2024. To begin your studies in May 2023, apply to the 2022/23 academic year.
Full Description
George Brown College's Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135) is an innovative one-year program (three semesters) designed to guide you in developing the knowledge, values and skills to work directly with a wide range of people in need.
PLEASE NOTE: If you apply to the 2023/24 intake for this program, you will start in May 2024. To begin your studies in May 2023, apply to the 2022/23 academic year.
This accelerated program stream is available to college and university graduates with a diploma or degree related to the field of social or community work.
In this program, you will learn to identify and act upon the systemic barriers that can impede access to social and economic justice in today’s society.
Students will examine the expanding professional roles and responsibilities of social service workers in large urban centres and other communities within a rapidly changing society.
In addition to studying the theoretical models, methods and skills of social service work practice, you will learn about and develop skills in:
group facilitation
allyship and anti-oppressive practice
counselling
substance use and addiction
social change and proposal development
social innovation
mental health
Apply to the Social Service Worker (Accelerated) program if you:
have strong interpersonal skills and are comfortable working with people and groups
are committed to working toward a more just and equitable society
are committed to examining the dynamics of power, oppression and social location
are seeking to work with a wide range of individuals, groups and communities
Many of the Social Service Worker faculty have professional experience with:
marginalized communities
institutional health and social service organizations
federal, provincial and municipal governments
research and initiatives in social innovation
a range of not-for-profit organizations and agencies
direct practice with individuals, families, groups and communities
In preparation for field placement, students will be required to work in multiple small and large groups within classes and community settings.
Apply to the Social Service Worker (Accelerated) program if you are a university graduate with a degree in a related discipline* such as:
psychology
sociology
women’s studies
environmental studies
education and cultural anthropology
* Students with degrees from other disciplines
may
be considered if they successfully completed a minimum of six relevant social science courses.
OR
A college graduate with a diploma in:
Assaulted Women’s and Children’s Counsellor/Advocate
Child and Youth Care
Community Worker
Behavioural Science Technician
Early Childhood Education
Find a
complete list of degrees and diplomas considered for admission to the SSW (Accelerated) (C135) program
.
Students must successfully complete a mandatory six-week bridging program that begins in May prior to entering into the fall semester. This bridging program is not eligible for additional transfer credits.
Additional fees will apply for the spring/summer semester.
Note: Students are not eligible for OSAP for the Spring/Summer semester.
George Brown College is a signatory of Colleges and Institutes Canada’s Indigenous Education Protocols, which reaffirms the importance of structures and approaches required to address Indigenous peoples’ learning needs and support self-determination and socio-economic development of Indigenous communities.
In response to this and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada’s Calls to Action, the Social Service Worker program is committed to developing the capacity of its students to work with the Indigenous individual, families, groups and communities. The Social Service Worker program would like to acknowledge the support of Indigenous Education and Services and Negahneewin Council who have helped the faculty with this process. The Indigenous Learning Outcomes are guiding the embedment of Indigenous learning into the curriculum.
Your Field Education Options
As part of the Social Service Worker (Accelerated) program, you will have the opportunity to participate in approximately
528 hours of supervised field experience
.
With a network of over 350 social services agencies that provide specialized community-based services and supports to a wide range of people across the Greater Toronto Area, you’ll have the chance to find an experience that matches an area(s) of interest.
Police Vulnerable Sector Check Note:
In compliance with the requirements of our field partners,
all students in this program are encouraged to complete a police vulnerable sector check before commencing their field placement
.
These reference checks, which can take up to four months, are done to protect the clientele of these agencies who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
The fees for the reference checks vary by region and must be paid by the student. Students are responsible for ensuring that the check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
The program will assist students in applying for the police vulnerable sector check once they begin the program.
Students without a clear police reference check may find that their choice of placement is limited. Students in this situation are encouraged to work with the field education co-ordinator to identify placement opportunities that do not require the vulnerable sector check. Students are also encouraged to inquire and apply for Suppression and Destruction of Record or Record Suspension (formerly known Pardon) at their specific regional police services, in order to prepare for their future career or employment. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website
.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates meet the educational requirements for registration as a Social Service Worker in the
Ontario College of Social Workers and Social Service Workers (OCSWSSW).
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) graduates
may work directly with people in social services or be involved in community development or social justice and allyship initiatives. Previous graduates have found employment in a variety of places including:
mental health
homelessness
poverty
substance use and addictions
long-term care
criminal justice
crisis supports
settlement and immigration
Educational Pathways
Graduates of the Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135) program may apply to complete a second diploma in a related George Brown College program in a reduced time frame:
Child and Youth Care (Accelerated) (C153)
Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) (C130)
Community Worker (Accelerated) (C131)
Assaulted Women and Children's Counsellor/Advocate (AWCCA) (Accelerated) (C147)
Career Development Practitioner (C406)
For further information on future study options, see
Transfer Guide
.
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) Graduates who successfully complete this program may qualify for advanced standing in:
The
Professional Communications
B.A. and
Justice Studies
B.A. at Royal Roads University
The following Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) programs:
Toronto Metropolitan University
York University
Lakehead University
Algoma University
The Community Economic and Social Development
B.A. at Algoma University also welcomes graduates of the Social Service Worker program.
These are just some examples of where graduates can pursue future study options.
For further information, see
Transfer Guide
. For details, please follow the links above to program websites.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 2 (May–June)
Code
Course Name
SWRK 1051
Fundamentals in Social Work
SWRK 1052
Introduction to Counselling Skills in Social Service Work
SWRK 1070
Understanding & Working with Groups
SWRK 1073
The Sociology of Power, Privilege & Identity
SWRK 1074
Substance Use and Addiction
SEMESTER 3 (September–December)
Code
Course Name
SWRK 2056
Case Management: An Anti-Oppressive Approach
SWRK 2058
Perspectives on Mental Health
SWRK 2090
Fieldwork Practice
SWRK 2091
Fieldwork Seminar
Program Specialization Course
SEMESTER 4 (January - April)
Code
Course Name
SWRK 2090
Fieldwork Practice
SWRK 2091
Fieldwork Seminar
SWRK 1072
Social Change & Proposal Development
Program Specialization Course
PROGRAM SPECIALIZATION COURSE
Code
Course Name
SWRK 2092
Working with Older Adults
SWRK 2093
Disability Discourse: Implication for SSW Practice
SWRK 2095
Deconstructing Internalized Privilege and Oppression
SWRK 2096
Social Innovation for Social Change
SWRK 2097
Counselling Skills with Individuals and Families
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The following Ministry of Colleges and Universities’ program standards apply to all social service worker diploma programs delivered by Ontario Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology.
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Develop respectful and collaborative professional and interpersonal relationships that adhere to professional, legal and ethical standards aligned to social service works.
Record information accurately and communicate effectively in written, digital, verbal and nonverbal ways, in adherence to privacy and freedom of information legislation, in accordance with professional and workplace standards.
Integrate a practice framework within a service delivery continuum, addressing the needs of individuals, families and communities at micro, mezzo, macro and global levels, and work with them in achieving their goals.
Plan and implement accessible and responsive programs and services, recognizing the diverse needs and experiences of individuals, groups, families and communities and meeting these needs.
Examine current social policy, relevant legislation and political, social, historical and/or economic systems and their impacts for individuals and communities when delivering services to the user/client.
Develop strategies and approaches that support individual clients, groups, families and communities in building the capacity for self-advocacy, while affirming their dignity and self-worth.
Work from an anti-oppressive, strengths-based practice, recognizing the capacity for resilience and growth of individuals and communities when responding to the diverse needs of marginalized or vulnerable populations to act as allies and advocates.
Develop strategies and approaches to implement and maintain holistic self-care as a member of a human service profession.
Work with individuals, groups, families and their communities to ensure that service provider strategies promote social and economic justice, and challenge patterns of oppression, discrimination and harassment and sexual violence with clients, coworkers and communities.
Develop the capacity to work with the Indigenous individual, families, groups and communities while respecting their inherent rights to self-determine, and to identify and address systemic barriers that produce ill effects, developing appropriate responses using approaches such as trauma-informed care practice.
Note: The learning outcomes have been numbered as a point of reference; numbering does not imply prioritization, sequencing, nor weighting of significance.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,656.00 * ‡
International Tuition
$17,313.00 ** ‡
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Spring
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice.
‡ May semester fees are approximately; $1,183.00 Domestic, $4,745.00 International. These fees are not included in the tuition above and are subject to change. They are to be paid separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding (for semesters 3 and 4), provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Note: Semester 2 (May–June) is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
diploma or bachelor's degree – applicants must have a diploma or degree
related to the field of social or community work
.
** Please note that successful completion of the six-week preparatory module in May is required prior to entrance to the Fall semester.
English Language Proficiency
Domestic applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
Course Exemptions
None
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
In compliance with the requirements of our field partners, all students in this program are encouraged to complete a vulnerable sector check before commencing their field placement. These reference checks, which can take up to four months, are done to protect the clientele of these agencies who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law. The fees for the reference checks vary by region and must be paid by the student. Students are responsible for ensuring that the check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).” The program will assist students in applying for the police check once they begin the program.
Students without a clear police reference check may find that their choice of placement is limited. Students in this situation are encouraged to work with the field education coordinator to identify placement opportunities that do not require the vulnerable sector check. Students are also encouraged to inquire and apply for Suppression and Destruction of Record or Record Suspension (formerly known as Pardon) at their specific regional police services, in order to prepare for their future career or employment.
For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website
.
Our field placement partners may require students to show proof of vaccination. It is your responsibility to ensure all pre-placement requirements are met.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges
.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Social & Community Services
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2185 Email:
communityservices@georgebrown.ca
. Our office hours are Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. – 4 p.m.
To contact one of our Social Service Worker Program Coordinators, please email
sswcoordinators@georgebrown.ca.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Social Service Worker (C119)
Community Worker (C101)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
“So much has happened since I left GBC. I got a job at a community centre right after I finished the program and I am now having my placement at Scarborough Women's Centre, And last week I signed a contract with a group practice that is specialized in psychotherapy for queer clients. I got registered as an RSSW, got liability insurance, have a supervisor working with me.!!! The only reason why this is all possible is that I have an SSW diploma. I am so happy, and I did not expect to be where I am so quickly. I am still one year away from being an MSW, but I am already doing the work I wanted. GBC was an important piece in all of this.”
— Carla Barbosa, 2021 Graduate, Master of Social Work Student & Registered Social Service Worker – Counselor Registered Social Service Worker - Our Landing Place
Carla Barbosa
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.