Sound Design & Production Program (Postgraduate) (P409)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Sound Design & Production
Code:
P409
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$7,021.00 *
International Tuition:
$32,441.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Media & Performing Arts
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Visual Effects (Postgraduate) (P408)
Video Design & Production (P112)
Graphic Design (G102)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
With a strong mobile entertainment and gaming industry in North America, there's an increased demand for sound designers. Modelling standard industry workflows, George Brown College's Sound Design & Production program focuses on creating sound for film, television and games. Students work in collaboration with other media programs to create sound for shorts, animations and games.
Full Description
Whether recording audio in-studio or in the field, as a
Sound Design & Production
student, you will learn to master technical skills and refine your artistic style.
Without a sound designer to create the perfect soundscape, the film, television and game industries are incomplete. Applying the technical and conceptual aspects of sound, you will become audio storytellers working alongside visual production artists to re-create the real world in a digital context.
You will learn how to create sound from scratch through capturing real-environment sounds as well as Foley creation. At George Brown's studio production facilities, you will learn mixing, video game audio, dialogue editing and ADR, sound design and recording to re-create audio landscapes.
Program Requirements
The Sound Design & Production program requires students to have access to a personal computer with the following minimum specifications:
laptop or desktop
CPU:
Intel Core i5 – i7
graphics:
Intel UHD Graphics 620 or equivalent
RAM:
4GB – 8GB (the most you can afford. the better)
screen:
13.3-inch – 15inch
storage:
500GB – 1TB SSD
additional Storage
: 2-4TB Portable HD
personal recorders
: Zoom H1n or higher; Tascam DR-05X or higher
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
The skills acquired during this 12-month program will prepare graduates to navigate the workings of the sound industry. Graduates will be prepared to work with production companies and sound studios as collaborators within the music, film and television industries.
Potential job titles include:
audio technician
multimedia sound technician
postproduction technician
sound designer
supervising sound editor
production mixer
dialogue editor
Foley mixer
sound effects editor
recording mixer
boom operator
Industry
With an established grounding in the film/television industry and the growing strength of the gaming industry in Ontario, sound designers have a respected place and fulfill a vital role in both industries. Graduates will be prepared to work with production companies and sound studios as Toronto continues to create and supply the world with quality sound content.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
SDES 1001
Sound Design
SDES 1002
Auditory Cultures
SDES 1003
Sound Design Theory
SDES 1012
Applied Postproduction
SDES 1005
Postproduction ADR and Foley Mixing
SDES 1016
Game Sound Design I
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
SDES 1011
Advanced Sound Design
SDES 1004
Scoring and Music Editorial
SDES 1013
Sound Art
SDES 1014
Production and Location Sound
SDES 1015
Advanced Postproduction ADR and Foley
SDES 1006
Game Sound Design II
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
SDES 2010
Workplace Preparation and Entrepreneurship
SDES 2020
Experiential Thesis
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Create sound files for live action dramatic short films, animated short films, video games and interactive media
Produce a score recording session and arrange a provided composition to fit a given visual sequence.
Collaborate with key principals and production personnel in the creation of complementary sound design for a storytelling environment.
Design sound for the appropriate medium and genres considering the cultural and social significance of those designs.
Plan audio design and production projects that reflect scope and vision for pre-production, production and postproduction.
Apply entrepreneurial strategies relevant within the field of sound design to develop a viable business plan for freelance sound design professionals.
Assess existing and emerging market trends in sound design products and services for production project purposes.
Adhere to legal principles, government legislation and regulations, copyright and contract requirements and professional and industry codes of conduct.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,021.00 *
International Tuition
$32,441.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the three semesters of the program starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
diploma, advanced diploma or degree in digital animation, game development, theatre production, or film/video production, or related field
portfolio
online interview*
OR
diploma, advanced diploma or degree in another discipline with a minimum of two years of experience in sound-related work (resumé and references required)
portfolio
online interview*
* Please note that only the top-ranked applicants (based on their portfolio) will be invited to attend an online interview.
Please note that domestic applicants who are submitting international transcripts require a Canadian equivalency evaluation. This can be obtained through ICAS (
International Credential Assessment Service
) at icascanada.ca or WES (
World Education Services
) at wes.org/ca.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English language proficiency test results must test at the College level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Media & Performing Arts
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2015
Email:
media@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered through our
School of Media and Performing Arts
and classes take place at our
St. James Campus
, located at
230 Richmond Street East
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
On-campus information sessions
are available. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
. You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Visual Effects (Postgraduate) (P408)
Video Design & Production (P112)
Graphic Design (G102)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.