Sport and Event Marketing Program (Postgraduate) (B400)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Sport and Event Marketing
Code:
B400
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
12 months (2 semesters in-class, 1 semester work experience)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,310.00 *†
International Tuition:
$17,774.00 **†
Centre:
Business
School:
Marketing
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Work Experience (Co-op or Internship) Required
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: On Campus; Semester 3: Co-op
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: On Campus; Semester 3: Co-op
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Open
Open
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Marketing Management – Digital Media (Postgraduate) (B433)
Strategic Relationship Marketing (Postgraduate) (B409)
Event Planning (H141)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The Sport and Event Marketing graduate certificate program in Toronto provides students with the foundational knowledge and applied skills employers value related to marketing careers in today’s integrated world of sport, arts and entertainment, and not-for-profit enterprises.
Full Description
For over 25 years, the
Sport and Event Marketing
graduate certificate program at George Brown College in Toronto has been equipping students with the core skills to succeed in the integrated work of sport, arts, entertainment and not-for-profit enterprises.
Hands-on from the first day, this 12-month program provides students with a foundation in consumer marketing. It focuses on the examination and application of Sport and Event Marketing best practices, strategies, tactics, tools and techniques. Students develop and learn to apply creativity and critical thinking skills that will take them from the classroom to the boardroom. Assignments and projects can involve industry partners, especially in the final semester when students plan and execute a charitable event.
Key disciplines covered include sport, arts and entertainment marketing, sponsorship activation, event planning and management, integrated marketing communications (IMC), digital media, not-for-profit and cause-related marketing and financial metrics.
This learning experience will enable you to:
Develop integrated marketing and media plans for arts, entertainment, cause-related marketing and the sports industry.
Plan, execute and evaluate comprehensive events utilizing project management and team-building skills.
Develop and evaluate sponsorship activation opportunities from the value perspective of the consumer, property and buyer.
Extracurricular opportunities may include:
speed mentoring
5 to Watch
Canada’s Sports Business Awards
This program is also offered in a fully online format (which may not be suitable for international students based on student visa requirements). Students who wish to apply for the
Sport and Event Marketing Online Postgraduate program
, should apply to
B420
.
This
Centre for Business
program is part of our
School of Marketing
.
Your Field Education Options
Work Experience (co-op or internship work term)
This program requires the successful completion of one semester of work experience to graduate. This work experience is either co-op (paid) or internship (unpaid). Either one will give you the practical experience employers value.
The work term occurs after the end of the second academic semester.
George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students then apply for these opportunities and go through a competitive interview process. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the learning outcomes of the program. This valuable work experience can in turn be added to your resumé.
In addition to on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide field education opportunities with real-world challenges and clients. Find out more about
field education
at the Centre for Business.
MARKETING ASSOCIATIONS MEMBERSHIP
George Brown Marketing students have access to membership to two of Canada’s premier marketing associations, the CMA and IAB, included in their tuition fees:
Canadian Marketing Association (CMA)
membership includes:
Live and online events, with free or reduced member pricing
Professional development opportunities
Tools, resources, and guides for members only
Networking opportunities with thousands of marketers
Exclusive access to
CMA NXT
, a site dedicated to filling the gap between post secondary education and professional life
Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB)
membership includes:
Student volunteer (and networking) opportunities for marquee events
Members only webinars and podcasts
Original Canadian digital marketing research
Globally accepted digital ad standards
Globally standardized courses, certification, and custom workshops
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates gain transferable skills for a career start in a growing variety of industries that embrace sport and event marketing practices. These include amateur and professional sport, e-sports, arts and entertainment, consumer products, retail, tourism, hospitality, financial services, technology, special events, not for profit, business consulting, advertising, sponsorship, digital and experiential marketing.
Potential positions may include:
account manager/executive
event co-ordinator
game operations co-ordinator
marketing co-ordinator
partnerships and sponsorships co-ordinator
ticket sales co-ordinator
Industry
Industry Feedback
"We have hosted a variety of George Brown Sport and Event Marketing interns and have always been impressed that these students have a built-in industry network when they arrive, as their classmates are spread throughout the industry. Add to that the fact that many have had other work experiences and it makes for a more mature, effective internship for the hosting organization." Read more about Dan MacKenzie in our Alumni Stories. —
Dan MacKenzie
(Graduate 1997, Sport and Event Marketing), vice-president & managing director, NBA Canada
“The insights students gained from the George Brown Sport and Event Marketing program have helped them provide valuable support for our sponsorship programs. Their experience has allowed them to become important and trusted members of Scotiabank’s marketing team.” —
Matthew Coorsh
, director, Marketing Sponsorships & Brand Management, Scotiabank
Educational Pathways
For information on additional future study options, see our
transfer guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner 2023-2024
In order to graduate from the
B400 program
, you need to complete the following
13
mandatory courses and
1
work experience term.
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
COMP 1110
Computer Applications for Marketing
NONE
MARK 1027
Marketing Management
NONE
MARK 4005
Applied Business Communications
NONE
MARK 4030
Sports and Event Marketing Seminar
NONE
SPMK 4002
Event Planning and Management I
NONE
SPMK 4014
Principles of Sport & Event Marketing I
NONE
BUS 4000
Work Experience Prep Course
NONE
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
SPMK 4017
Nonprofit and Cause-Related Marketing
MARK 1027
MARK 4012
Marketing Metrics
NONE
SPMK 4007
Event Planning & Management II
SPMK 4002
MARK 2044
Principles of Marketing Research
NONE
MARK 4025
IMC & Digital Media Fundamentals
MARK 1027
SPMK 4018
Principles of Sport & Event Marketing II
SPMK 4014
Work Experience Term
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
COOP 4001 / INTN 4001 / BAWT 4001
Work Experience Term
BUS 4000
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Apply marketing concepts to industries directly associated with sports, arts, entertainment or causes.
Develop integrated marketing and media plans featuring consumer-oriented objectives, strategies, tactics, budgetary considerations and return on investment (ROI) metrics.
Plan, execute and evaluate comprehensive events utilizing project management and team building skills as required.
Develop and evaluate sponsorship activation opportunities from the value perspective of the consumer, property and buyer.
Create professional and persuasive written, digital and other presentation formats using industry standard software.
Analyze and interpret marketing activities using criteria related to sales forecasting, budgeting, financial health and performance metrics.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,310.00 *†
International Tuition
$17,774.00 **†
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022.
Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
† This program includes one work experience semester.
The tuition fee for this program does NOT include the cost of the Work Experience semester. The Work Experience fee of $500 covers the cost of the Work Experience Preparation course
and
work experience semester.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
College advanced diploma (three-year) or bachelor's degree or demonstrated relevant work experience (resumé and references required).
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission. In addition, applicants who are considered for admission to the program based solely on their work experience will be required to provide proof of English proficiency at the college level, and may be required to write the George Brown College English admission assessment.
Please review our
English proficiency requirements
.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International (Visa) Students
Visit the
International Admissions
page for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
Sport & Event Marketing (B400)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the program co-ordinator:
Peter Widdis,
Program Co-ordinator
Email:
pwiddis@georgebrown.ca
John Peco
, Chair – School of Marketing, Centre for Business
Email:
john.peco@georgebrown.ca
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Marketing
and classes usually take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also take our
virtual tour.
Social Channels:
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn.
Explore related programs:
Marketing Management – Digital Media (Postgraduate) (B433)
Strategic Relationship Marketing (Postgraduate) (B409)
Event Planning (H141)
I was really looking for a way to pair my degree with a more applied postgraduate experience. I had a strong sports background after being at Queen’s, but I was missing the business side. I was lucky to be accepted into the Sport & Event Marketing program. If you want to work in sports, it’s definitely the best place in the country to be.
Emma Lambert
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.