Strategic Relationship Marketing Program (Postgraduate) (B409)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Strategic Relationship Marketing
Code:
B409
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
12 months (2 semesters in-class, 1 semester work experience)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,584.00 * †
International Tuition:
$17,929.00 ** †
Centre:
Business
School:
Marketing
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Work Experience (Co-op or Internship) Required
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid; Semester 2: Not Available; Semester 3: Co-op
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Marketing Management – Digital Media (Postgraduate) (B433)
Marketing Management – Financial Services (Postgraduate) (B406)
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The Strategic Relationship Marketing graduate certificate program in Toronto provides students with the foundational knowledge and applied skills that employers value in the area of marketing, with a focus on Customer Relationship Marketing (CRM) and Customer Experience (CX) strategies and techniques.
Full Description
The
Strategic Relationship Marketing program
responds to the growing need within the marketing industry for a new skill set – one that places the customer at the centre of business decisions. This skill set is critical since modern marketing success depends on targeting and attracting new customers while retaining and strengthening relationships with current customers at all points during their journey.
This one-year graduate certificate program provides students with a foundation in marketing, with a focus on the examination and application of Customer Relationship Marketing (CRM) and Customer Experience (CX) best practices, strategies, tactics, tools and techniques. Students will have an opportunity to apply industry-standard marketing analytics and CRM platforms and technologies to marketing processes and create a comprehensive marketing plan.
Key areas covered in the program include database marketing strategy, customer relationship management tools, customer relationship marketing theory, customer experience foundations, loyalty marketing, marketing research, marketing automation tools for personalized customer journeys, and marketing analytics and measurement. In the final semester, students work on a capstone project based on a real business situation. This program makes use of industry-standard cloud-based software, so students will require a laptop computer.
This
Centre for Business
program is part of our
School of Marketing
.
Minimum computing requirements
PC
Intel i3 processor
Microsoft Windows 7 or higher with 4GB RAM
web camera and microphone
Wi-Fi: IEEE 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac compatible
Microsoft Office – Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, OneDrive (including access to Office 365 cloud)
free for all current George Brown College students
Apple/Mac
Intel i3 processor
macOS High Sierra with 4GB RAM
web camera and microphone
Wi-Fi: IEEE 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac compatible
Office 2016 for Mac – Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, OneDrive (including access to Office 365 cloud)
free for all current George Brown College students
Your Field Education Options
Work Experience (co-op or internship work term)
This program requires the successful completion of a one-semester work experience to graduate. This work experience is either co-op (paid) or internship (unpaid). Either one will give you the practical experience employers value.
The work term occurs after the end of the second academic semester.
George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students then apply for these opportunities and go through a competitive interview process. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the learning outcomes of the program. This valuable work experience can in turn be added to your resumé.
In addition to on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide field education opportunities with real-world challenges and clients. Find out more about
field education
at the
Centre for Business
.
Marketing Associations Membership
George Brown Marketing students have access to membership to two of Canada’s premier marketing associations, the CMA and IAB, included in their tuition fees:
Canadian Marketing Association (CMA)
membership includes:
Live and online events, with free or reduced member pricing
Professional development opportunities
Tools, resources, and guides for members only
Networking opportunities with thousands of marketers
Exclusive access to
CMA NXT
, a site dedicated to filling the gap between post secondary education and professional life
Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB)
membership includes:
Student volunteer (and networking) opportunities for marquee events
Members only webinars and podcasts
Original Canadian digital marketing research
Globally accepted digital ad standards
Globally standardized courses, certification, and custom workshops
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates will be prepared for careers in a wide variety of customer-centric sectors such as hospitality, telecommunications and media, not-for-profit, retail, financial services, digital agencies and advertising agencies.
Potential positions may include:
marketing co-ordinator
CRM data analyst
automated campaign specialist
CRM marketing specialist
market research analyst
loyalty marketing co-ordinator
lead generation specialist
customer experience specialist
business analyst
sales enablement specialist
Industry
We are aligned with what businesses are looking for! Most of the top five in-demand skills in sales and marketing (customer relationship management [CRM], Salesforce and Google Analytics), as suggested by
Randstad
, are all skills students develop in our Strategic Relationship Marketing program.
We also help put students on the path to obtaining
Randstad’s
suggested top in-demand sales and marketing certifications* including Salesforce certification, Google Analytics certification and HubSpot marketing software certification).
*Certifications are awarded by the certifying body and not George Brown College.
Courses
Required Courses
In order to graduate from the
B409 program
, you need to complete the following
13
mandatory courses and
1
work experience term
Printable Curriculum Planner 2023-2024
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
COMP 1192
Computer Applications for Database Marketing
NONE
MARK 4013
Customer Experience Fundamentals
NONE
MARK 1027
Marketing Management
NONE
MARK 4014
CRM Fundamentals
NONE
MARK 4005
Applied Business Communications
NONE
MARK 4015
CRM Tools & Technology
NONE
BUS 4000
Work Experience Prep Course
NONE
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
MARK 4026
Marketing Automation
MARK 4015
MARK 2040
Strategic Project
Successful completion of Semester 1
MARK 4007
Marketing Research
NONE
MARK 4027
Retention & Loyalty Marketing
NONE
MARK 4032
Strategic Relationship Marketing Seminar Series
NONE
MARK 4033
Customer Journey Analytics
COMP 1192
Work Experience Term
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
COOP 4004 / INTN 4004 / BAWT 4004
Work Experience Term
BUS 4000
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Create a professional marketing plan using standard marketing planning processes and tools.
Develop a comprehensive Customer Relationship Management (CRM) marketing plan that uses a client’s current database strategy that is personalized and scalable.
Apply strategic communication planning processes and tools to generate leads and improve customer retention, satisfaction and profitability.
Evaluate data extracted from a variety of marketing technology platforms to support problem-solving and decision-making processes in marketing.
Apply Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and Customer Experience (CX) best practices, strategies, tactics and techniques to strengthen customer relationships for both business-to-business (B2B) and business-to-consumer (B2C) markets.
Design customer experience journey mapping to identify areas to improve customer experiences and automate personalized digital marketing.
Apply industry standard marketing analytics and CRM platforms to sales and marketing processes.
Gather and analyze primary and secondary marketing research in order to support sound marketing decisions that improve customer experiences.
Communicate complex marketing material verbally, in writing and digitally for a variety of audiences and purposes.
Model professional standards to provide reliable and actionable analysis while respecting Canadian regulation and practice related to data privacy and security.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,584.00 * †
International Tuition
$17,929.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
† This program includes one work experience semester.
The tuition fee for this program does NOT include the cost of the work experience semester. The Work Experience fee of $500 covers the cost of the Work Experience Preparation course
and
work experience semester.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
College advanced diploma (three-year) or bachelor's degree or demonstrated, relevant work experience (resumé and references required).
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English language proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission. In addition, applicants who are considered for admission to the program based solely on their work experience will be required to provide proof of English proficiency at the college level, and may be required to write the George Brown College English admission assessment.
Please review our
English proficiency requirements
.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International (Visa) Students
Visit the
International Admissions
page for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
Strategic Relationship Marketing (B409)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the program co-ordinator:
Stephanie Wallace
, Program Co-ordinator
Email:
stephanie.wallace@georgebrown.ca
John Peco
, Chair, School of Marketing
Email
:
john.peco@georgebrown.ca
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Marketing
and classes usually take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also take our
virtual tour.
Social Channels:
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn.
Explore related programs:
Marketing Management – Digital Media (Postgraduate) (B433)
Marketing Management – Financial Services (Postgraduate) (B406)
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
I came to Canada leaving behind the corporate world to pursue my dreams and it was indeed a big milestone to achieve. Strategic Relationship Marketing is the most intense and practical program for marketers interested in data analytics, market research and consumer insights. The on-campus and off-campus opportunities are amazing at George Brown and they gave me a chance to develop industry relationships. I ended up doing a co-op in the Marketing department of the college and the experience has been incredible. It has definitely opened many doors to pursue a full-time job later in the field of marketing. My potential has been best recognized here and I am proud to choose George Brown College as a stepping stone to my success.
Riddhi Modi
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.