Theatre Arts-Preparation Program (P108)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Theatre Arts-Preparation
Code:
P108
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,648.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,649.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Media & Performing Arts
Location:
Young Centre for the Performing Arts
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Theatre Arts – Performance (P104)
Acting for Media (P107)
Art and Design Foundation (G108)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Theatre Arts – Preparation is a dynamic one-year program, specifically designed for students to obtain the basic skills for entry into theatre and media programs.
Disclaimer:
This program has expectations of professionalism, group work, intimacy between actors, whispering, consensual touching, combat training, expressions of physicality, deep exploration of self, personal psychological examination, conflict, and successful failure.  This program is meant to train a student to be a professional actor which includes all of these aspects listed here.
Full Description
Theatre Arts – Preparation
is a dynamic one-year program, specifically designed for students to obtain the basic skills for entry into theatre and media programs.
This exciting program provides you with the knowledge and skills in the performance, business and production aspects of the performing arts, helping you to clarify future education and career objectives. Blending theory and practical skills, this program will help you develop the confidence, creativity and fundamental acting skills for both the theatre and film/television industries. Courses cover the basics of inhabiting your body, script analysis and creating your own personal brand.
Whether you are hoping to audition for a theatre or media program, be a YouTuber or influencer, or just want to learn to be more comfortable with yourself, this program will be of benefit to knowing yourself and how you relate to others.
Courses will be taught by artists and teachers from the performing arts professions. You will have ample opportunity to meet Canadian artists, directors, designers, writers and technicians.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Successful graduates may be prepared to audition in a formal performing arts career-training program.
Educational Pathways
Successful graduates of this program may wish to audition for the three-year
Theatre Arts – Performance
program or the two-year
Acting for Media
program.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
THEA 1021
Performing Arts Career
THEA 1022
Performance Styles in Dramatic Literature
THEA 1036
Fundamentals of Acting
THEA 2031
Canadian Drama
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
THEA 1034
Kinetic Movement for Actors
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
THEA 1023
Introduction to Voice and Speech
THEA 2030
Theatre as Medium
THEA 2033
Monologue and Audition Preparation
THEA 2047
Introduction to Scene Study
THEA 2040
Creative Process
THEA 2042
Career Building Using Social Media
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Employ improvisational skills for problem-solving and character development.
Analyze different styles and genres of performance.
Develop a career and professional development plan to enhance work performance and maintain currency with industry.
Identify career opportunities in the performing arts industry, including opportunities for innovation and entrepreneurial arts work therein.
Work collaboratively to prepare and present an interdisciplinary performance.
Interact in a professional manner appropriate to the performing arts industry.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,648.00 *
International Tuition
$17,649.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Media and Performing Arts
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2167
Email:
performingarts@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered through our
School of Media and Performing Arts.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Theatre Arts – Performance (P104)
Acting for Media (P107)
Art and Design Foundation (G108)
Before landing his role as Junior Lolo on
21 Thunder
, Emmanuel Kabongo had attended 357 auditions. The rising star knew that getting his name out there would be tough, but now that his hard work is paying off, he’s taking the time to savour his success. Originally from the Democratic Republic of Congo, Kabongo moved to Toronto from South Africa when he was 11. Before he discovered his passion for film and television, his first love was sports: basketball and soccer in particular. He attended George Brown College to play on the school’s basketball team and enrolled in a one-year theatre program to keep his spot. By the end of the year, Kabongo had acted in a student film, which solidified his decision to pursue acting as a career.
Read more about Emmanuel's story
.
Emmanuel Kabongo
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.