Tourism and Hospitality Management Program (H130)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Tourism and Hospitality Management
Code:
H130
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,548.00 * †
International Tuition:
$18,547.00 ** †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Hospitality & Tourism Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing and that is why we have incorporated work-integrated learning opportunities into all CHCA programs.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 3, 4: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Open
Closed
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Event Planning (H141)
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) (H311)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
We shape the future generation of tourism professionals who are passionate, people-focused, motivated and committed to supporting the growth and sustainability of the tourism industry at the local, national and international levels. We are located in Toronto, the heart of the Canadian hospitality and tourism industry, but with global reach and influence. The Tourism and Hospitality Management program develops your business management skills via hands-on learning, field trips, theoretical classes and practical labs; all led by industry experts.
Full Description
GBC’s Tourism and Hospitality Management program will prepare you for the exciting and diverse tourism industry. Your first year in this program addresses foundational industry knowledge. You will learn and work alongside your peers across all diploma programs in our School of Hospitality and Tourism Management, referred to as a “common first year approach.” In your first year you will gain knowledge in the areas of hotels, event planning, tourism and food and beverage, through a range of practical and theoretical courses.
Your second year in the Tourism and Hospitality Management Program will broaden your understanding of tourism-specific niche sectors, global issues, impacts and challenges facing the industry. With courses in culinary tourism, heritage tourism, sustainable tourism and international tourism, you will gain the knowledge and transferable skills needed for a successful career with travel agencies, tour companies, tourism organizations and associations and more!
Your Field Education Options
As part of your fourth semester, you will complete a 14-week industry externship with your choice of a nationwide or international placement. This opportunity will enhance your knowledge with real-world experience and help you start building your network of contacts. Completing the Tourism and Hospitality Management program will make you the kind of multitalented graduate the local and international tourism industry is seeking in today’s competitive environment.
Graduates gain the skills required to be progressive leaders within the industry, enriching the experience of tourists. You will receive industry certifications in food safety, responsible alcohol beverage service, TICO Travel Counsellor Certification and first aid (CPR). To better hone your international tourism and hospitality management skills, you have the option of participating in an exclusive Experiential Study Tour.
This program allows you to switch into any of our hospitality and tourism management programs by your second year, should your hospitality area of interest change. As well, we know life can be full of unexpected events; should you not be able to complete your final year of study, our common first year model makes you eligible to graduate with a one-year certificate in Hospitality Services (H101).
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
You will be prepared for a wide range of rewarding careers at locations that include:
travel and tour companies
tourism organizations and associations
hotels and resorts
conference and convention centres
private clubs
wellness centres
community centres
cruise ships
airlines
government agencies
Educational Pathways
Earn a diploma and a bachelor’s degree. Qualified graduates of our Tourism and Hospitality Management program may be eligible to enter the
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality)
degree program at George Brown College as an advanced standing student in September or January. You may also choose to start in the spring bridging semester from May to August, continuing into the degree program in September. This educational path requires a minimum grade point average of 2.7 to qualify. Talk to a program coordinator about articulation options.
For further information, see
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOST 1085
Principles of Hospitality and Tourism Management
HOST 1171
Global Accommodation Industry
HOST 1172
Introduction to Wines and Beverages
HOST 1070
Introduction to Catering
HOST 1146
Leading, Following and Speaking with Confidence
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH 1250
Introduction to Management Numeracy with Excel Applications
HOST 1068
Smart Serve (online certificate)
HOSF 1145
Sanitation (online certificate)
HOSF 1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HOST 1174
Remarkable Restaurant Service – An Introduction to the Industry
HOST 1043
Special Events Planning and Delivery
HOST 1173
Hospitality Marketing and Social Media
HOST 1160
Career Preparation
HOST 1175
Global Tourism Geography*
HRM 1015
Human Resources Management*
LAW 1017
Introduction to Hospitality Law*
ACCT 1048
Hospitality Accounting*
GSCI 1035
Science of Sustainability
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
ACCT 2017
Managerial Accounting
HOST 1049
Sustainable Tourism
HOST 2085
International Tourism Cultures and Behaviour
HOST 2093
Leading Change in Digital Tourism
HOST 1156
Culinary Tourism*
HOST 1091
Heritage Tourism*
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
HOST 2053
Tourism Management Capstone (online)
HOST 2130
Industry Externship
GNED
General Education Elective
* seven-week courses
** Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication). COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Provide professional guest services to enhance customer satisfaction by anticipating, meeting and/or exceeding individual and organizational standards and objectives.
Create marketing plans informed and supported by market research, social networks, product knowledge and sales strategies.
Contribute to effective management in hospitality, tourism and leisure settings by implementing leadership skills and strategies.
Evaluate and apply effective financial management and accounting practices to support operations in the tourism industry.
Comply with relevant organizational and workplace systems, processes, policies, standards, legal obligations and regulations, and use knowledge of risk management principles, to support and maintain efficient, productive, safe, secure, accessible and healthy tourism operations.
Apply principles of teamwork and constructive relationship management to support positive workplace culture.
Integrate hospitality skills and knowledge to promote ongoing personal and professional development.
Design and deliver inclusive tourism and hospitality programs, products and services that comply with all relevant legislation, conform to relevant ethical guidelines and promote corporate social responsibility best practices.
Analyze and implement sustainability practices in the tourism and hospitality industry by adapting to environmental, social, cultural, political and economic trends and issues.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,548.00 * †
International Tuition
$18,547.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
†
Additional Cost
Textbooks, manuals, etc. – $575 (fees are subject to change).
Included in material fees is a uniform; black pants, grey Oxford shirt and a bib apron.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
Grade 12 English (C or U)
Applicants may also qualify for admission through completion of the Hospitality Services (Pre-Hospitality) program (H101). There are a limited number of seats available and admission is not guaranteed.
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens, including nuts, dairy and shellfish, are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
For general School of Hospitality and Tourism Management–related inquiries, please contact
chcastudentsupport@georgebrown.ca.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Event Planning (H141)
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) (H311)
“This program has really surpassed my expectations. Since the classes cover a diverse range of sectors within the industry, I have gained knowledge and passion in careers I would have never known about. The professors not only show such great devotion towards their fields of expertise, but also towards their students. They genuinely care about your success and will always make themselves available to answer any questions you may have. I believe this open collaboration is what truly makes this program outstanding. After only a few weeks of graduating, I secured a position within a hotel and am really excited to begin my journey in the Hospitality industry!”
Amanda Mitchell
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.