Video Design & Production Program (P112)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Video Design & Production
Code:
P112
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,034.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,930.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Media & Performing Arts
Location:
St. James Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 3: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2, 4: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Media Foundation (P111)
Graphic Design (G102)
Art and Design Foundation (G108)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
With media shifting away from traditional models of broadcasting toward new and innovative methods, a broader skill set is required. Ranked as one of the
best film schools in Canada
, George Brown College’s Video Design & Production diploma program will expose you to traditional and emerging filmic techniques.
Full Description
The
Video Design & Production program
will prepare you with the knowledge and practical skills required in this emerging field by merging traditional filmmaking techniques with new mediums and distributive methodologies. As a graduate, you will be equipped with entrepreneurial knowledge and skills that will enable you to decide which path is best for you. You will be exposed to elements such as video design and video production including mobile technology, virtual production and post-production skills to create video for entertainment, marketing, advertising, education and social network strategies.
Our LED wall will provide students with hands-on experience in what is quickly becoming the newest skillset in video content production. Students will also participate in group projects and extracurricular activities aimed to provide excellent opportunities to develop a professional portfolio.
Program Requirements
The Video Design & Production program requires students to have access to a personal computer with the following minimum specifications:
laptop or desktop
CPU:
8th-generation Intel Core i5 – i7
graphics:
Intel UHD graphics 620 or equivalent
RAM:
4GB – 16GB (the most you can afford. the better)
screen:
13.3-inch – 15inch
storage:
500GB – 1TB SSD
additional storage
: 2-4TB Portable HD
optional but recommended
: 4K Capable Mirrorless or Digital SLR
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Video designers are able to move across multiple platforms including film, television and interaction storytelling. Potential job titles include:
filmmaker
screenwriter
director
assistant director
editor
editorial assistant
producer
production manager
production assistant
Industry
The media industry is experiencing a dramatic shift in how it records, transmits and presents itself to the world. As Toronto and the province of Ontario continue to adapt to these challenges and changes with vigour, this industry shows strong projected growth. With Canadians watching more online video than nearly anyone else in the world, and crowdfunding playing an increasingly significant role in video projects such as short and feature films, media continues to have a robust and solid grounding in Toronto. (Sources: ComScore, Canadian Media Production Association.)
For information on future study options, see the
Transfer Guide
.
Educational Pathways
Graduates of this program may also be interested in the
Screenwriting & Narrative Design
graduate certificate program.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
Pre-Requisite
VDES 1001
Digital Storytelling I
NONE
VDES 1002
Video Design and Composition
NONE
VDES 1003
Digital Video Technology
NONE
VDES 1004
Digital Production I
NONE
VDES 1000
Mise-en-Scène & Film Structures
NONE
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
NONE
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Pre-Requisite
VDES 1011
Digital Storytelling II
VDES 1001
VDES 1014
Digital Production II
VDES 1004
VDES 1015
Digital Cinematography I
VDES 1003
VDES 1016
Video Editing and Visual Effects
VDES 1002
VDES 2020
Audio Production Post I
VDES 1002, VDES 1003
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
Pre-Requisite
VDES 2004
Capstone Preparation
VDES 1015, VDES 1014
VDES 2005
Digital Cinematography II
VDES 1015
VDES 2006
Audio Production Post II
VDES 2020
VDES 1017
Scriptwriting
VDES 1011
VDES 2009
Directing
VDES 1015, VDES 1014
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
Pre-Requisite
VDES 2014
Capstone Project
Successful completion of all semester 3 courses.
VDES 2015
Production Entrepreneurship
VDES 1017, VDES 1009
VDES 2016
XR Production
VDES 2005, VDES 2006
VDES 2008
Art Direction
VDES2009
GNED
General Education Elective
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Create independent digital film projects according to project specifications using various production techniques.
Work effectively as a member of a digital film production team in various capacities and roles.
Manage scheduling and budget for digital film productions.
Capture quality moving images using appropriate camera/lighting equipment and techniques.
Develop a short film and television portfolio to showcase digital filmmaking skills.
Write story-driven, visual and cinematic scripts focused on effective dialogue, structure and character development.
Record and mix multi-track sound in a digital format using industry standard equipment and software.
Market and distribute digital film projects using industry and new media outlets.
Edit digital video on nonlinear, industry standard software and equipment.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,034.00 *
International Tuition
$17,930.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials (non-refundable), student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses and any other selection criteria outlined below:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
portfolio (demo reel)*
current resumé
video submission*
* Applicants should submit a minimum of one short film, trailer or demo reel. More information on how to submit the demo, letter of intent and video will be provided to qualified applicants during the application process.
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note: students who start the program in January (winter term) will be required to attend classes during the summer months (May to August).
George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Media & Performing Arts
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2015
Email:
media@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered through our
School of Media and Performing Arts
and classes take place at our
St. James Campus
, located at
230 Richmond Street East
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
On-campus information sessions
are available. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Media Foundation (P111)
Graphic Design (G102)
Art and Design Foundation (G108)
“Because the School of Media offers so many different programs, we have the opportunity to collaborate with one another. Working with the acting students has been really eye-opening. You create stories and you create characters but it’s not until you actually go to filming that you have the actors bring the characters to a different place.”
Dave Nguyen
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.