Web Development – Front-End Design Program (Postgraduate) (G418)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Web Development – Front-End Design
Code:
G418
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
6,981.00 * ‡
International Tuition:
$21,899.00 ** ‡
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Design
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Placement available with portfolio approval.
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1: Hybrid
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: Hybrid
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Front-End Design focuses on human-centred design to produce high-impact websites and apps. George Brown College's Web Development – Front-End Design program will prepare you with skills in both application and interface development to deliver solutions that meet industry-standards for effective code engineering and responsible design, going beyond traditional websites.
Full Description
This one-year (3 semesters) graduate certificate program will prepare you to translate concepts and ideas into visual and functional interfaces, websites, applications and systems, both personal and professional. Front-end developers focus on human-centred design to produce high-impact websites and apps that respond to the needs of a client — in sectors ranging from health care to fintech, retail to technology and beyond.
The program establishes a new standard for application development with a core focus on five pillars:
accessible user interface design (“UI”)
intuitive user experience design (“UX”)
industry workflow and problem solving skills
full-stack application architecture
front-end development
This program has been designed to meet industry needs as application design and development remain critical skills within the rapidly evolving digital economy. Efficient and effective communication with stakeholders and audiences alike is needed in nearly every contemporary industry, from retail to marketing and beyond.
Graduates of the Web Development – Front-End Design program will have the theoretical and hands-on training to:
Develop custom front-end interactive prototypes and solutions, using the latest techniques in HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
Integrate the latest libraries and frameworks to improve efficiency, while maximizing employability.
Master the development workflow, including testing, debugging, documentation, bundling and deployment.
Put user interface (UI) and user experience (UX) design principles into practice.
Apply knowledge from all levels of the design and development stack to create solutions that meet the requirements of a client brief.
Your Field Education Options
During the third semester of the program, students will take part in a Work-Integrated Learning placement with an industry sponsor.
Learn more about
Experiential Learning at the School of Design
including how to apply, important dates, workflow, and PLAR eligibility.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates from Web Development – Front-End Design may find employment in a variety of industries from retail to marketing and beyond. Graduates may go on to careers as:
software engineers and designers
interactive media developers
computer programmers
web designers
developers
Courses
Required Courses
Semester 1
Course Code
Courses
DESN 3031
Applied Interface Design
DESN 3032
Applied Interface Development
DESN 3033
User Interface Design and Technique
DESN 3034
Prototyping and Experience Design
DESN 3035
Libraries, Tools and Workflow
DESN 3036
Studio Practice 1
Semester 2
Course Code
Courses
DESN 3037
Front-End Application Architecture
DESN 3038
Data Design and Development
DESN 3039
Industry Employment and Portfolio
DESN 3040
Future Interface Design
DESN 3041
Front-End Frameworks
DESN 3042
Studio Practice 2
Semester 3
Course Code
Courses
DESN 3043
Front-End Design Field Placement
or
DESN 3053
Work Integrated Project
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Determine and document requirements for web computing projects based on the effective application of stakeholder needs.
Prepare and present proposals and business plans for web applications that satisfy stakeholder requirements.
Design, model, implement and optimize accessible web solutions to meet client requirements and constraints and align with standards and best practices.
Design, model, implement, optimize and maintain databases to support data-driven solutions for web environments.
Implement a development process to support consistency between development platforms and production platforms.
Develop the appropriate information architecture in order to satisfy a broad range of requirements and enhance the user experience.
Apply project management concepts to web environment projects to ensure the effective management throughout the lifecycle of the project.
Test, troubleshoot and debug web applications to support requirements and meet Quality Assurance objectives.
Communicate and collaborate with team members and stakeholders to ensure effective working relationships.
Evaluate proposed solutions to optimize and improve web applications based on usability testing and analysis.
Adhere to ethical, legal and regulatory requirements and/or principles to develop and manage web applications.
Select and apply strategies for personal and professional development to enhance work performance.
Use front-end frameworks to promote patterns of design and development that conform to the latest industry standards.
Create interactive experiences for various types of front-end interfaces or devices, with a focus on user-facing applications.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
6,981.00 * ‡
International Tuition
$21,899.00 ** ‡
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the total tuition, materials (non-refundable), student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall 2022. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
‡ Semester 3 fees will consist of a flat fee of $500.00 for field placement or work integrated project fees are to be paid separately, as this fee is not included in the total above.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Ontario College Diploma, advanced diploma, degree or equivalent in computer science/studies, web programming, interaction design or related, or demonstrated work experience in design or computer development.
Questionnaire:
Qualified applicants will be invited to
complete a questionnaire electronically
. The questionnaire will focus on queries related to past development experiences and software applications the applicant is familiar with and comfortable working in. The questionnaire is designed to describe the applicant's future career objectives and intentions in the program. It provides information to assist the Academic Review Committee in assessing the applicant's potential for success in the program.
Interview:
Qualified applicants may also be invited for an interview.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide
English proficiency test results
must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Design
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 3129
Email:
game@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is part of our
School of Design
, located at our
Waterfront Campus
at
3 Lower Jarvis St.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
School of Design Building
The School of Design resides in a new 103,000-square-foot facility in the Daniels Waterfront – City of the Arts development. This state-of-the-art building supports academic programs and industry projects with features such as:
virtual and augmented reality lab
usability and testing lab
Future Ways of Living lab
peer tutor lab
digital sandbox
incubators
prototyping and workshop spaces
design and innovation showcase spaces
Come and have your questions answered, learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom at one of our
information sessions
. You can also
book a campus tour
.
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.