Welding Techniques Program (T166)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Welding Techniques
Code:
T166
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$8,156.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,614.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Apprenticeship & Skilled Trades
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2024
Open
Closed
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Plumbing Techniques (T165)
Construction Techniques (T176)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This 1-year program is eligible for
a $20,000 scholarship.
*
Welding is a high-demand trade, one that is critical for the success of many major development projects in every province across the country. The Welding Techniques program prepares students with practical, hands-on experience that applies the technical theory and elements of the welding field. Our state-of-the-art welding lab includes 26 individual stations that allow students to train in a controlled environment, as well as our virtual welding stations that offer students the opportunity to practise using realistic simulations. The Smart Welding Lab also provides a monitor and specialized infrared camera that lets instructors demonstrate and digitally document welding techniques.
*Domestic students only — see page for details.
Full Description
Employment opportunities in the welding trade span several industries, including transportation, petrochemical, oil and gas, aerospace, fabrication, manufacturing, pipelines, mining and construction.
George Brown’s Welding Techniques program prepares students with practical, hands-on experience that applies the technical theory and elements of the welding field. Students articulate their technical and essential employability skills through an e-portfolio, based on skill development throughout the program.
At the end of this intense, two-semester program, students will have the opportunity to challenge the shielded metal arc weld test, in accordance with CSA W47.1/W59 standards, in a position(s) of their choosing through the Canadian Welders Bureau. (This test will be voluntary and at an extra cost to the student.)
This experiential program will provide you with the skills to master five of the most common types of welding processes:
Shielded Metal Arc Welding (SMAW):
This process uses a consumable electrode covered with flux. It is the primary type of welding used in the maintenance and repair industry. Arc welding is usually used to weld iron and steel, although it can also be used for alloys (aluminum, nickel, etc.).
Gas Metal Arc Welding (GMAW):
This welding process uses electricity to melt and join pieces of metal together. It is generally regarded as one of the easiest types of welding to learn. It is also called Gas Metal Arc Welding (GMAW). It can be used to weld a variety of metals such as carbon steel, stainless steel, aluminum, magnesium, copper, bronze, etc.
Gas Tungsten Arc Welding (GTAW):
The process uses a non-consumable tungsten electrode that delivers the current to the welding arc. The tungsten and weld puddle are protected and cooled with inert gas, typically argon or helium. It is most commonly used for welding stainless steel and non-ferrous metals like aluminum, magnesium and copper alloys.
Plasma Arc and Oxyfuel Cutting:
This process utilizes an electrode and compressed gas, forced at high speeds through a nozzle, usually copper, to cut metal, primarily mild steel, stainless steel and aluminum. Oxyfuel cutting uses fuel gases combined with oxygen to cut metals, usually steel.
Fabrication:
Metal fabrication is the building of metal structures by cutting, bending, and assembling processes. It is a value-added process that involves the construction of machines and structures from various raw materials.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of the program bring a wide range of welding skills to future employers. This program increases your marketability and knowledge of the welding trade and provides a good understanding of the safety practices relevant to the work performed. Welders are always going to be in demand in the manufacturing industry of Ontario because of how important they are to the manufacturing process. Most of the basic welding skills are the same across all industries, so welders are able to shift from one industry to the next – meaning that there is always a constant supply of work.
Industry
Welding is a high demand trade, one that is critical for the success of many major development projects in every province across the country. Employment opportunities span several industries including:
transportation
petrochemical
oil and gas
aerospace
fabrication
manufacturing
pipelines
mining
construction
The Bureau of Labour Statistics paints a very bright future for welding careers in Ontario. Between 2010 and 2025, the industry is expected to see around 15 per cent growth, which is higher than the rate of growth for most other occupations. Welding positions are going to be incredibly important to both the provincial and national economy over the course of the next decade.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
WELD 1010
Blueprint Reading and Production for Welders
WELD 1011
Mathematics for Welders
WELD 1012
Shielded Metal Arc Welding I
WELD 1013
Gas Metal Arc Welding I
WELD 1014
Bronze Welding, Oxyfuel Cutting and Plasma Arc Cutting
WELD 1015
Metallurgy for Welders I
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
WELD 1112
Shielded Metal Arc Welding II
WELD 1113
Gas Metal Arc Welding II
WELD 1114
Gas Tungsten Welding
WELD 1115
Metallurgy for Welders II
WELD 1116
Fabrication
PORT 1001
Portfolio
WELD 1118
CAD for Welders
GNED
General Education Elective
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Perform work responsibly and in compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act and industry processes and procedures, including demonstrating learned knowledge of WHMIS.
Interpret engineering drawings and blueprints to produce basic graphics and welding projects as required by industry.
Select, plan and demonstrate sustainable metal fabrication operations using industrial metal fabrication machinery and emerging technologies.
Perform basic technical measurements and welding functions accurately, using appropriate equipment and welding techniques.
Create welds on various types of materials and joints in the major welding positions to industrial standards and codes.
Use shop tools and equipment to manufacture, assemble, maintain and repair components according to required specifications and industry standards.
Interact effectively and professionally in shop environments, both independently and with fellow workers and other tradespeople.
Assess weld quality and implement corrective action where required to follow quality control and quality assurance procedures and meet organizational standards and requirements.
Create a professional development plan that addresses one’s strengths and areas for growth in the greater context of the welder profession.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$8,156.00 *
International Tuition
$18,614.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 math (M or U) or Grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Tom Tomassi, Program Co-ordinator
School of Apprenticeship and Skilled Trades
Email:
ttomassi@georgebrown.ca
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4303
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Plumbing Techniques (T165)
Construction Techniques (T176)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.