Wireless Networking Program (Postgraduate) (T411)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Wireless Networking
Code:
T411
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,981.00 *
International Tuition:
$26,390.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Computer Technology
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Fall 2023 Delivery:
Semester 1, 3: On Campus
Winter 2024 Delivery:
Semester 1, 2: On Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2023
Closed
Closed
Winter
2024
Closed
Closed
Spring
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Cyber Security (Postgraduate) (T433)
Information Systems Business Analysis (with experiential learning capstone) (Postgraduate) (T405)
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Wireless communications are pervasive in our lives. They have grown in recent years to include everything from personal communications networks to governments, hospitals and neighbourhood businesses. And there’s no end in sight to the growth of our wireless world. George Brown’s leading-edge Wireless Networking postgraduate program is designed to put you at the centre of this exciting world by giving you high-demand skills in radio frequency (RF), cellular, broadband and advanced data communications.
Full Description
Wireless communications are pervasive in our lives. They have grown in recent years to include everything from personal communications networks to governments, hospitals and neighbourhood businesses. And there’s no end in sight to the growth of our wireless world.
George Brown College’s leading-edge Wireless Networking postgraduate program is designed to put you at the centre of this exciting world by giving you high-demand skills in radio frequency (RF), cellular, broadband and advanced data communications.
We offer you a unique choice of career direction. You can specialize in:
Long Term Evolution (LTE) and Broadband Technologies
Advanced Network Security
Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) Technologies
Other program advantages:
We have departed from the traditional lecture-based course structure. Students learn in labs by practising on the equipment that they will use when they enter the workforce.
In conjunction with our corporate partners, students may be involved in real-world projects for one or two days per week, making proposals and then working in teams to plan projects, set schedules and achieve goals.
George Brown has created up-to-date wireless, security, VoIP, RF and LTE labs so that all students gain individual hands-on experience.
Students will have access to NETLAB, giving them remote access to the Cisco Academy and VMWare labs.
After finishing the program, students will have bridging options to other postsecondary and postgraduate programs in the School of Computer Technology.
Note
: In this rapidly changing industry, program improvements are being made on an ongoing basis, which may result in course changes. Changes are made in consultation with our Program Advisory Committee, which is composed of academic staff and industry representatives from small, medium-sized and large corporations.
Please note: Students who start the program in January (winter term) will be required to attend classes during the summer months (May to August).
Technology Requirements
This program requires students to have access to a personal computer with the following specifications:
8 GB minimum (16 GB RAM recommended0
256 GB SSD Hard Drive (500+ GB is optimal)
Quad-core i5/i7 2.4GHz or better
Webcam
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
The specialized education in this program helps graduates get jobs in a wide variety of positions connected with:
wireless LAN support
wireless service providers
cellular and broadband providers
data centres
enterprise system support
Courses
Required Courses
PRINTABLE CURRICULUM PLANNER 2023-2024
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
COMP 1153
Introduction to RF/Wireless Communication Principles
COMP 1154
Networking Technologies Fundamentals
COMP 1240
Operating Systems
COMP 1241
WLAN Administration
COMP 1205
IT Best Practices
COMP 4040
Introduction to SOC
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
COMP 1159
Introduction to Voice Network Technology and Techniques
COMP 1247
Mobile and IoT Technologies
COMP 1161
Security and Advanced Data Network Technologies
COMP 1207
Data Centre and Virtualization Technology
COMP 4074
Wireless Network Security
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
COMP 2105
Advanced Network Analysis
COMP 4057
Ethical Hacking
COMP 4063
Capstone Project
COMP 1214
Advanced Security Infrastructure and Deployment Technologies
COMP 2145
4G and 5G Technologies
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Test and measure RF (radio frequency) signals, attenuation and antenna systems.
Assist with the preparation and execution of wireless site surveys.
Build a wired and/or wireless computer network using system design documentation.
Measure performance of both wired and wireless network components and applications using a variety of basic and advanced network management tools.
Produce documentation and reports related to network components and applications performance.
Troubleshoot and resolve technical problems related to both wired and wireless networks using standardized approaches and methodologies.
Install and upgrade network hardware (e.g., workstations, servers, wireless access points, routers, switches, firewalls) and related components and software according to best practices in the industry.
Monitor and evaluate network security issues and perform basic security audits on both wired and wireless networks.
Assist in the collection and analysis of user requirements related to wired and wireless networks.
Utilize change control, issue documentation and problem escalation procedures and processes as per industry best practices.
Generate and maintain “as built” network documentation following industry best practices.
Compare network performance against service levels and assist in the development of action plans as required against service level agreements.
Employ concepts and practices as defined in ITIL (IT Infrastructure Library) to manage IT services and operation, including project management tools and techniques.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,981.00 *
International Tuition
$26,390.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2022
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2023 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the
three
semesters of the programs starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for program starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Three-year college diploma or bachelor's degree*
* Please note that
domestic
applicants who are submitting international transcripts require a Canadian equivalency evaluation. This can be obtained through ICAS (International Credential Assessment Service) at
icascanada.ca
or WES (World Education Services) at
wes.org/ca.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more information.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Computer Technology
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4287
Email:
computertechnology@georgebrown.ca
The office hours are:
Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Program Co-ordinator: Khalid Danok
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 3675
Email:
kdanok@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
The Wireless Networking program is offered through our
School of Computer Technology
from our
Casa Loma Campus
at
146 Kendal Avenue
in Toronto. Sign up for an
information session
or
campus tour
to learn more about George Brown College and the program. You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Cyber Security (Postgraduate) (T433)
Information Systems Business Analysis (with experiential learning capstone) (Postgraduate) (T405)
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.