Advanced Manufacturing Program (T414)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Advanced Manufacturing
Code:
T414
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year - 2 semesters
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$6,803.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,657.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Several courses are experientially based and occur in a machine shop where students practice and master applied skills crucial to this work.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The one-year
Advanced Manufacturing
graduate certificate program provides hands-on instruction in safe working, machining skills, machine programming, part inspection, and precision measurement. Experiential learning is essential to this program as you practice advanced precision machining skills. This graduate certificate is an excellent option if you're currently working full-time and want to further your education. Our course delivery will allow you to remain at work. And if you're an international student, you'll have time to pursue other career opportunities.
This program is a great choice for you if you've graduated from a program that had limited or no hands-on instruction in precision machining and machine programming.
Full Description
The one-year
Advanced Manufacturing
graduate certificate program equips you with expertise in advanced manufacturing. This program is for recent graduates in engineering and skilled trades, international professionals, and current industry professionals with relevant diploma level certifications who want to upskill to remain relevant in the field. After completing this certificate, you'll be able to program, set up, and use advanced manufacturing equipment. You'll also know how to practice advanced precision machining skills.
Learn how to fabricate and build a progressive stamping die-set using conventional tools and the advanced manufacturing equipment of Computer Numerical Control (CNC) metal-cutting machines. Engage in experiential learning through several courses that take place in a machine shop where you'll practice and master applied skills crucial to this work.
Flexible Programming
By providing flexible learning options so you can remain at work while studying, this program is an excellent choice if you're currently working full-time and wish to further your education.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
As a graduate, you'll find employment in advanced manufacturing sectors with a variety of potential positions, for example:
CNC Operator
CNC Programmer
Technical Sales Representative
CNC Machinist
CNC Setup- Operator
General Machinist
Tool Designer
Industry
What Types of Employers Are Out There?
Manufacturers, particularly in fabricated metal, machinery, motor vehicle parts, and aerospace manufacturing.
Courses
Required Courses
Semester 1
Course Code
Course Title
CADE 1013
CNC Machining Practices
EMNG 1004
Metrology
MENG 1041
Tool Fabrication
MENG 1042
Engineering Drawing and Mechanical CAD
MENG 1043
CNC Programming
MENG 1088
Occupational Health and Safety
Semester 2
Course Code
Course Title
CADE 2013
Advanced Computer-Aided Manufacturing
CADE 2034
Advanced CNC Machining
DRFT 2024
Tool Design
MENG 2041
Precision Tool Manufacturing
MENG 2061
Career Preparation
Detailed Course Outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Assemble and analyze relevant information, data, and materials using advanced CAD and CNC software to present in technical documents and CAD drawings to internal and external stakeholders.
Collaborate with diverse team members to achieve project goals in a timely and respectful manner.
Analyze and solve complex manufacturing problems related to the efficient use of time and materials to optimize tool paths.
Interpret, prepare and modify mechanical drawings and other related technical documents on the shop floor and on the computer to manufacture components as per customer requirements.
Complete all work in compliance with standard operating procedures, health and safety legislation, and prescribed organizational practices and procedures to ensure safety of self and others.
Contribute to the planning and implementation of production processes to manufacture components as per customer requirements.
Apply quality control and quality assurance procedures to meet organizational standards and requirements.
Manufacture required components using CNC machines and cutting-edge technologies to customer specifications.
Develop and apply ongoing strategies for personal, career and professional development.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$6,803.00 *
International Tuition
$18,657.00 **
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Ontario College Diploma, Ontario College Advanced Diploma, Degree or equivalent in Mechanical Engineering or Mechanical Engineering Technology.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide
English language proficiency test results
must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges
.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4365
Email:
engineeringtech@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room D305
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
.
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.