Analytics for Business Decision Making Program (Postgraduate) (B412)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Analytics for Business Decision Making
Code:
B412
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
8 months (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,317.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,253.00 **
Centre:
Business
School:
Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Simulated Learning Environment
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Open
Opens Aug 6, 2024
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Information Systems Business Analysis (with experiential learning capstone) (Postgraduate) (T405)
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Project Management (Postgraduate) (B415)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Interested in becoming a big data expert? With the
Analytics for Business Decision-Making
graduate certificate program, you'll gain the skills to analyze data for businesses that will help them make important decisions. This online program is all about turning information into knowledge—and using it to take action. You'll be ready to enter the job market as an expert in data insights, data management, and data science.
Using a hybrid approach, this program combines in-person classes with online learning.
PLEASE NOTE: This program is also offered in a fully online format. Please see
Analytics for Business Decision-Making (Online) Postgraduate program (B422)
for more details.
Full Description
Businesses in all industries are looking for graduates with skills in business analytics, and the
Analytics for Business Decision-Making
graduate certificate program will prepare you for success in this high-demand field. This program will introduce you to programming, applied statistical comprehension, and database understanding as they relate to organizational Big Data (operational) requirements. Through a mix of in-depth data analytics and business analytics courses, you'll become fluent in the techniques and tools needed to turn raw data into meaningful insights.
Here are some skills you’ll be able to show off after completion of the Analytics for Business Decision-Making program:
Processing data to improve problem-solving and decision-making
Telling stories about data to assist decision-makers in their activities
Creating models using operational and marketing data to help make better business decisions
Communicating analytics results and conclusions clearly through oral, written, and formal presentations to staff and management
This
Centre for Business
program is part of our
School of Management
.
PLEASE NOTE: This program is also offered in a fully online format. Please see
Analytics for Business Decision-Making (Online) Postgraduate program (B422)
for more details.
Delivery
You will generally meet in the evenings and Saturdays, with weekday sessions for some semesters. The delivery format attempts to accommodate those who may have daytime commitments while taking this program.
Program Requirements
The Analytics for Business Decision-Making program is offered in a hybrid modality. Students will require a laptop computer.
Minimum computing requirements
a PC running Windows 8 or higher with 8MB RAM and an i5 processor
Microsoft Windows® 10 or Server 2016 +
64-bit versions of Windows
web camera and microphone
PC Version Microsoft Office including Access (as provided by George Brown via limited Student Office 365 versions)
For students who prefer Apple/Mac environments, it is necessary to ALSO have the following:
Bootcamp/Parallels
a copy of Windows 10
Microsoft Office including Access (students should have a PC version from
GBC Apps Anywhere
as Mac versions sometimes do not have the same depth in capability.)
Watch our past recording of the online info session for the Analytics for Business Decision-Making program.
Your Field Education Options
The BUS 4045 Data Project Capstone Project is a self-directed, faculty-guided research and analytics project where you will support an important business decision. You will demonstrate your ability to analyze real-world data and make meaningful business recommendations based on client feedback and interaction. This valuable work experience can, in turn, be added to your resumé.
The Analytics Hub
brings students, faculty, and industry together to derive actionable insights and tell stories about data from both private and public sources.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program will be prepared for careers in a variety of organizations such as marketing research firms, polling firms, branding/design firms, insurance and finance firms, loyalty programs (marketing), health care, public sector, manufacturing and supply chain.
Potential positions may include:
business analyst
data analyst
market risk analytics officer
web analytics manager
decision support specialist
web analyst
data-reporting analyst
Educational Pathways
For information on future study options, see our
Transfer guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
In order to graduate, you need to complete the following
14
mandatory courses.
SEMESTER 1
Weeks 1–7
Code
Course Name (Mandatory)
Pre-requisite
BUS 4046
Introduction to Business Analytics
NONE
Weeks 8–14
Code
Course Name (Mandatory)
Pre-requisite
BUS 4047
Applied Business Communication
NONE
Weeks 1–14
Code
Course Name (Mandatory)
Pre-requisite
COMP 4007
Computer Applications Involving Analytics
NONE
MGMT 4030
Business Research
NONE
MGMT 4084
Digital Media Analysis
NONE
STAT 4001
Statistics I for Analytics
NONE
BUS 4022
Programming Fundamentals for Analytics
NONE
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name (Mandatory)
Pre-requisite
MARK 4018
Data Mining & Modelling
STAT 4001
COMP 4008
Advanced Computer Applications involving Analytics
COMP 4007
BUS 4023
Business, Web and Social Media Metrics and Analysis
STAT 4001
BUS 4024
Business Decision-Making Through Advanced Analytics
BUS 4022
MGMT 4083
Business Metrics
MGMT 4030
STAT 4003
Statistics II for Analytics
STAT 4001
BUS 4045
Data Project Capstone Project
Completion of Semester 1
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Extract, transform and load data to more efficiently support problem-solving and decision-making.
Warehouse and mine data for the purpose of business decision-making.
Develop classification and/or predictive models using operational and marketing data in support of business decision-making.
Determine, using a variety of business intelligence tools, the most appropriate for each business decision-making scenario.
Effectively communicate analytics results and conclusions orally, in written reports and in formal presentations to various levels of staff and management.
Apply descriptive and differential statistical techniques to Big Data.
Analyze and interpret digital information as it relates to all aspects of an organization.
Apply the principles of business ethics and corporate social responsibility to the application and use of data to support business decision-making.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,317.00 *
International Tuition
$18,253.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
College advanced diploma (three-year) or bachelor's degree or demonstrated, relevant work experience (resumé and references required).
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English language proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered. In addition, applicants who are considered for admission to the program based solely on their work experience will be required to provide proof of English proficiency at the college level, and may be required to write the English admission assessment.
Please review our
English proficiency requirements
for more details.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please see our
Transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
Analytics for Business Decision-Making (Postgraduate) (B412)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the co-ordinator:
Robin Yap,
Email:
ryap@georgebrown.ca
Social Channels:
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Management
and classes usually take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Information Systems Business Analysis (with experiential learning capstone) (Postgraduate) (T405)
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Project Management (Postgraduate) (B415)
This program is a foundation for success in the data analytics field. The teachers are personable, and really push you to your limits. In semester two of this program, a Capstone project is offered, which is a real-life job experience using data analytics. My partner Xavier and I took the most out of this experience. Our project was the only one in Canada to make it to the 2018 SAS Global Forum’s Student Symposium and won first place.
Read more about
Annissa and Xavier’s success at SAS Global Forum 2018
.
Annissa Rodriguez
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.