Architectural Technology Program (T109)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Architectural Technology
Code:
T109
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,261.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,298.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Architectural Studies
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Available in Year 3 through a Divisional Select process
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Architectural Technician (T132)
Interior Design (T178)
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T312)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Our three-year
Architectural Technology
advanced diploma program opens the door to the world of architectural innovation. As an architectural technologist, you'll transform design concepts into technical construction documents, creating practical and sustainable solutions. We'll prepare you to enter the Architectural, Engineering, and Construction (AEC) industry as you master the skills needed to perform technical tasks and collaborate with professionals and tradespeople. From conceptualization to construction management, you'll be a key player in shaping the built environment.
Full Description
As our natural and built environments change, we need good design and technical solutions to better our world. In our three-year
Architectural Technology
advanced diploma program, you'll gain practical skills in our interactive studios while using up-to-date equipment and software. We'll give you the tools you need to work on projects ranging from new construction to alterations and renovations in the residential, commercial, industrial, and high-rise sectors of the Architectural, Engineering, and Construction (AEC) industry.
This exciting program prepares you to apply the current practices of the AEC industry, including:
building design
environmentally conscious and sustainable design
materials, methods, and components
sustainability
building codes and regulations
building science
practice management
technical writing
specifications
cost planning
digital project delivery
digital technologies
computational design
Not only will you develop a solid knowledge base and technical understanding of how buildings are designed and made, you'll also learn about the digital tools, platforms, and processes used in the industry, like Computer-Aided Drafting (CAD), Digital Project Delivery (DPD), Building Information Modelling (BIM), and 3D Visualization and Digital Modelling.
With your project-specific Studio courses, where you apply all your knowledge and skills to a large-scale project, you'll practice one of the top skills industry leaders look for: collaboration. In Studios, you'll work in teams within a simulated office environment to complete projects involving proposals, designs, and construction documents for both new and existing facilities.
Note
: If you enrol in the program in January, you must complete semester 2 in the summer (May to August) of the same year to continue into semester 3 in the fall.
Your Field Education Options
Upon completion of 4th semester, a Co-operative (co-op) Work Placement experience component in the Architectural Technology program is available for a selected number of students. The intake for this co-op program is limited, and all applicants must meet program criteria, will participate in a competitive process and final approval by the School of Architectural Studies academic department.
Those who enter the program will complete semester 5 from May to August, and co-op placement will take place from September to December. The sixth and final semester will be offered through a blend of in-class and online studies, allowing students to graduate in April of their final year of study. It will also allow students the opportunity to continue part-time work while completing their final semester of studies.
More details are available through the department and all interested students can attend a co-op information session in early December.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Opportunities for architectural technologists vary within the Architectural, Engineering and Construction (AEC) industry.
As a graduate of this program, your career options may include:
architectural technologist
architectural assistant
technologist within an engineering and/or construction form/company
self-employed designer and/or contractor
project director/coordinator
job captain
municipal plans examiner
building inspector
architectural document production
specification writer
property developer
property manager
architectural technologist with builders/developers
site supervisor
technical representative for building/equipment suppliers
Educational Pathways
Eligible graduates of the School of Architectural Studies (SAS) Architectural Technology program have the opportunity to continue in an architectural-specific academic career and apply course credits completed at George Brown College (GBC) to earn a Master of Architecture Degree with either Boston Architectural College (BAC) in Boston, Massachusetts, USA. or The College of Architecture and Design (CoAD) at Lawrence Technological University (LTU) in Southfield, Michigan, USA. Or the Bachelor of Science – Architectural Major (Post Diploma) at Athabasca University in Alberta, Canada. These opportunities are the result of Articulation Agreements signed between GBC and BAC, LTU and Athabasca University.
Eligible candidates also have the opportunity to apply to a 1-semester Exchange program with the Copenhagen School of Design and Technology (KEA) in Denmark during their second and/or third year of study. The Copenhagen School of Design and Technology offers practice-oriented higher education for the business community in the form of both business academics and professional bachelor programs.
Qualified graduates may be eligible for advanced standing in the George Brown College Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) degree program. Bridge courses may be required for advanced standing. For more information, see the
T314 program webpage
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
ARCH 1005
Architectural Technology & Studio 1
ARCH 1014
Canadian Industry Practices
ARCH 1048
Structural Systems 1
ARCH 1050
Visual Communications 1
ARCH 1060
Design Fundamentals
CADE 1012
CAD Drawing 1
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH 1139
Mathematics for Arch/IDT 1
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
ARCH 1006
Architectural Technology & Studio 2
ARCH 1013
Building Code & Regulations 1
ARCH 1070
Materials, Methods & Components 1
ARCH 1109
Building Systems – Mechanical and Electrical
ARCH 1164
Fundamentals of Building Science
CADE 1014
CAD Drawing 2
MATH 1149
Mathematics for Arch/IDT 2
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
ARCH 1058
Structural Systems 2
ARCH 2004
Architectural Technology & Studio 3
ARCH 2007
Building Code & Regulations 2
ARCH 2009
Practice Management
ARCH 2010
History of Architecture and Building Technologies
CADE 2001
Digital Practices for Architecture 1
COMM 1113
Professional Communications for Building Technologies
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
ARCH 2005
Architectural Technology & Studio 4
ARCH 2033
Visual Communications 2
ARCH 2034
Structural Systems 3
ARCH 2035
Materials, Methods and Components 2
ARCH 3017
Building Code and Regulations 3
ARCH 3037
Fundamentals of Project Cost Estimating
CADE 3001
Digital Practices for Architecture 2
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
ARCH 3010
Principles of Building Information Modeling
ARCH 3021
Structural Systems 4
ARCH 3023
Integrated Architectural Technology and Studio 1
ARCH 3033
Visual Communications 3
ARCH 3070
Materials, Methods and Components 3
CADE 3002
Digital Practices for Architecture 3
Students Choose Two Program Specialization Courses
ARCH 3012
Concentrations in Computational Design 1
ARCH 3015
Concentrations in Digital Technologies 1
ARCH 3019
Concentrations in Architecture 1
ARCH 3020
Concentrations in Building Science – New Construction
ARCH 3022
Concentrations in Project Management – Planning
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
ARCH 3013
Materials, Methods and Components 4
ARCH 3018
Specifications and Documentation
ARCH 3024
Integrated Architectural Technology and Studio 2
ARCH 3025
Principles of Digital Project Delivery
ARCH 3026
Sustainable Rating Systems
CADE 3003
Digital Practices for Architecture 4
Students Choose Two Program Specialization Courses
ARCH 3016
Concentrations in Digital Technologies 2
ARCH 3032
Concentrations in Computational Design 2
ARCH 3039
Concentrations in Architecture 2
ARCH 3040
Concentrations in Building Science – Renovation and Retrofit
ARCH 3042
Concentrations in Project Management – Procurement
**Based on the results of your placement tests, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM2000. COMM1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Articulation Agreement
Eligible graduates of the School of Architectural Studies (SAS) Architectural Technology program have the opportunity to continue in an architectural-specific academic career and apply course credits completed at George Brown College (GBC) toward:
Bachelor of Science – Architectural Major (Post-Diploma) Program at Athabasca University, Alberta, Canada.
Master of Architecture with the College of Architecture and Design (CoAD) at Lawrence Technological University (LTU) in Southfield, Michigan, USA.
Master of Architecture Degree with Boston Architectural College (BAC) in Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
Both these opportunities are the result of Articulation Agreements signed between GBC and BAC, as well as GBC and LTU.
All four of these opportunities are the result of Articulation Agreements signed between GBC and the respective academic institutions allowing for transfer of courses credits completed at GBC.
Graduates of the Architectural Technology program also have the opportunity to earn a bachelor's degree in Architectural Technology and Construction Management from the Copenhagen School of Design and Technology (KEA) in Denmark upon completion of two semesters of study and an internship. The Copenhagen School of Design and Technology offers practice-oriented higher education for the business community in the form of both business academics and professional bachelor programs.
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Communicate with clients, contractors, other building professionals and approval authorities.
Prepare, read, interpret and revise drawings, and other graphical representations used in building projects.
Obtain, analyze, prepare and revise specifications and other project documents used in design and construction.
Prepare estimates of time, costs and quantity and participate in the tendering process.
Solve technical problems related to building projects through the application of principles of building science and mathematics.
Collaborate with and coordinate information from structural, mechanical and electrical building systems professionals.
Contribute to the design of architectural projects.
Contribute to the analysis, planning and preparation of site-planning documents.
Comply with the legal and ethical requirements of an architectural technologist in the practice of building design and construction.
Assess buildings and their interiors, and make recommendations for their repurposing and renovation.
Ensure personal safety and contribute to the safety of others in the workplace.
Participate in sustainable design and building practices.
Use and evaluate current and emerging technology to support building projects.
Assist in the planning, scheduling and monitoring of building projects.
Apply business principles to design and building practices.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,261.00 *
International Tuition
$18,298.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
Math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Architectural Studies
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4365
Email:
architecturalstudies@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room D303
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus Information Session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Architectural Technician (T132)
Interior Design (T178)
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T312)
"I am thankful that George Brown College provided portfolio classes. Having a portfolio is something that a lot of industries stress over and I think this class has helped me a lot in preparation for the interviews I had to go through before graduating. I got my first job right after graduation working as an Architectural Technologist on the Design Team at Q4 Architects Inc. I had considered going into university instead of college but what interested me more is being able to have the hands-on application that is given to you in college."
Kimberlyn Lei
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.