Art and Design Foundation Program (G108)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Art and Design Foundation
Code:
G108
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semester)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,256.00 * †
International Tuition:
$18,293.00 ** †
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Design
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Graphic Design (G102)
Interior Design (T178)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Art and Design Foundation
is a one-year certificate program that will give you a broad base of expert knowledge and technical skills in art and design. If you want to explore a variety of art and design disciplines, develop your portfolio for further studies, and gain creative skills in a studio-based environment, then this program is for you.
Full Description
In the one-year
Art and Design Foundation
certificate
program, you'll gain practical, creative, and critical thinking skills in art and design. Develop your portfolio throughout our studio-based curriculum, as you integrate a variety of both analog and digital projects. You can use your portfolio whether you choose to apply to a diploma or degree-level art and design program.
In your first semester, we'll introduce you to the language of art and design, history of art, and the foundations of observational drawing, form and space, photography, and digital design. Then in your second semester, you'll learn advanced skills and creative problem-solving techniques in design process, plus the foundations of colour theory and practice.
The portfolio showcase workshops will introduce you to professional practitioners in the creative industries and their unique experiences of building successful portfolios. You can also choose optional courses to gain specific skills needed for your future education.*
*You can consult with the program's academic co-ordinator about your second semester course selection and future educational pathways.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Educational Pathways
Graduates of the program with a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.5 are eligible for direct entry into the George Brown
Graphic Design
or the
Interaction Design
program.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
ART1019
Foundation Drawing I: Observational Drawing and Composition
ART1020
Foundation Design I: Form and Space
ART1029
Introduction to Digital Media
ART1030
Introduction to Photography
ART1031
Art Culture
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
ART1021
Foundation Design II: Colour Theory and Practice
ART1020
ART1036
Art and Design Portfolio Showcase
ART1020 and ART1029
DESN1020
Design Process
ART1020
3 of:
ART1024
Foundation Drawing II: Life Drawing*
ART1019
ART1040
Painting and Mixed Media Studio
ART1019
ART1025
3D Materials and Techniques
ART1035
Advanced Digital Media
ART1029
ART1033
Multimedia Storytelling
ART1029
ART1043
Photography: People, Concepts and Stories
ART1030
DESN1084
2D Digital Art I
*Please note that Foundation Drawing II involves life drawing.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Create two- and three-dimensional designs using a wide range of materials, processes and techniques.
Use the design process to develop and solve visual problems using various strategies for idea generation.
Apply the formal elements and principles of design.
Utilize a variety of presentation skills across a wide range of media appropriate to portfolios, public and private venues.
Develop skills in portfolio presentation in a variety of media through studio-based projects.
Articulate art concepts, history and the role of art in society to the general public.
Manage personal digital presence/brand by participating in professional communities of practice.
Art & Design Foundation Information Session
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,256.00 * †
International Tuition
$18,293.00 ** †
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials (non-refundable), student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
† Portfolio kit: $200–$300 not included in fees.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
We recommend that applicants should have taken at least one high school-level art class and have some basic experience in areas such as photography, illustration and digital image creation.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Design
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2137
Email:
design@georgebrown.ca
For more information about the program, you may also contact the program co-ordinator, Bahar Mousavi Hejazi:
bmousavi@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is part of our
School of Design
, located at our
Waterfront Campus
, at
3 Lower Jarvis St.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
School of Design Building
The School of Design resides in a new 103,000-square-foot facility in the Daniels Waterfront – City of the Arts development. This state-of-the-art building supports academic programs and industry projects with features such as:
virtual and augmented reality lab
usability and testing lab
future Ways of Living lab
peer tutor lab
digital sandbox
incubators
prototyping and workshop spaces
design and innovation showcase spaces
Come and have your questions answered, learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom at one of our
information sessions
. You can also
book a campus tour
or explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Graphic Design (G102)
Interior Design (T178)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.