Autism and Behavioural Science Program (Postgraduate) (C405)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Autism and Behavioural Science
Code:
C405
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,882.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,324.00 **
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Health & Wellness
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field education in semesters 1 and 2
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (S302)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Verified course sequence to become a Board Certified Assistant Behaviour Analyst (BCaBA) with the Behavior Analyst Certification Board (BACB)
Program Overview
The
Autism and Behavioural Science (Postgraduate)
program focuses on autism spectrum disorders and therapies, mainly applied behaviour analysis (ABA), with a primary application for children and adolescents. You will gain practical experience working with treatment teams.
Full Description
The one-year Autism and Behavioural Science (Postgraduate) (C405) program was developed in response to the growing public concern about services for children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD).
It was designed to deepen the expertise in the field of autism and behavioural sciences for application within the children’s sector and simultaneously create a pool of qualified individuals to meet the needs of service agencies that provide autism or children’s services.
This program enables graduates with university degrees and graduates of early childhood education, social service worker, child and youth care, developmental service worker and similar programs to acquire the
specialized skills
and
expertise
they need to work with individuals with a diagnosis of autism.
Autism and Behavioural Science students learn about:
autism spectrum disorder (ASD)
intervention methods, including Intensive Behavioural Intervention (IBI)
applied behaviour analysis (ABA) theory (e.g., operant conditioning)
working with families and treatment teams
relevant legislation
Note: Field education may require travel due to the number of opportunities for appropriate placements within the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). Students may be required to travel to locations as far east as Oshawa, as far west as Burlington and as far north as Vaughan.
Recommended Skills and Aptitudes
Consider this career path if these terms describe you:
caring
tenacious
analytic
detail-oriented
Autism and Behavioural Science Program Features
Full-time and part-time faculty who have extensive experience in ABA, IBI and ASD
Well-established relationships with agencies providing services for individuals with a diagnosis of autism
Your Field Education Options
George Brown's Autism and Behavioural Science program has been designed to provide students with meaningful hands-on experiences within settings where students could ultimately find work.
In semester 1, the field placement experience is three weeks long. During that time, students will visit an agency partner (e.g., ABA centre, school, residential home, daycare setting, etc.) to observe an individual with autism.
During semester 2, field placement is seven weeks long. Students will go to an agency partner where they will not only observe an individual with autism, but will be required to identify a target behaviour and develop a treatment plan accordingly.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of George Brown's Autism and Behavioural Science program will be prepared for employment as
instructor-therapists
with agencies offering ABA for children with autism spectrum disorder, as well as in schools and private family settings.
Graduating from this program may lead to opportunities for advancement into supervisory or consultant roles.
Previous education at the diploma or degree level may also lead to other career opportunities, such as:
resource teacher
educational assistant
program supervisor
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
BST 1101
Introduction to Applied Behaviour Analysis
BST 1102
Introduction to Autism Spectrum Disorders
BST 1104
Working with Families and Teams
BST 1105
Ethics & Professionalism
BST 1106
Field Placement I
BST 1108
Field Seminar I
BST 1121
Behavioural Skill Building
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
BST 1103
Treating Challenging Behaviour
BST 1122
Parent and Staff Training
BST 1123
Specialized Instructional Strategies
BST 1124
Transition Planning and Implementation
BST 1125
Field Placement II
BST 1126
Field Work Seminar II
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Assess and analyze the characteristics, skills and behaviour of individuals with ASD to effectively implement evidence-based behavioural interventions.
Design and implement effective behavioural intervention plans under appropriate supervision and based on the principles of Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA).
Evaluate the effectiveness of behavioural intervention plans based on the principles of ABA.
Work collaboratively with families, teams, service providers and the broader community to respond to the learning and behavioural needs of individuals with ASD.
Design, implement and evaluate as part of a team ABA-based transition plans for individuals with ASD.
Comply with established ethical principles and professional guidelines.
Provide leadership in the promotion and provision of services to meet the needs of individuals with ASD and their families.
Evaluate empirical evidence in order to select appropriate interventions for individuals with ASD.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,882.00 *
International Tuition
$18,324.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Completion of a three-year or four-year Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science degree (no specific major, though a major in psychology, or related discipline, is highly recommended*).
Or a two-year or three-year diploma in a human services discipline (a major in psychology is recommended*).
It is recommended that related degrees/diplomas include at least one or more psychology course(s).
* Please note
:
This program has a strong focus on behaviour change and behavioural sciences, so some previous psychology-related education is highly recommended in order to be successful in the program.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Find out more about
English proficiency
requirements.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form requirements and program policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 8 to 10 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(TDAP shot, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres and Two-Step TB Skin Test) and proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year. These requirements must be submitted by the program specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination:
Public Health recommends that people working with young children and other vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student. To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a Vulnerable Sector Check completed, and this check must be renewed every year before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Vulnerable Sector Check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Call the George Brown School of Health and Wellness at 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. or E-mail
hwprograms@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (S302)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
"The Autism and Behavioural Science program absolutely
propelled
me into the fulfilling career of working to better the lives of those living with Autism Spectrum Disorder. Without this program at George Brown College, I am certain I would not have had the educational jump-start I was given to land me my first clinical position immediately upon graduation. What I valued most was the privilege to form the influential relationships that I did with the skilled professors already working within the field. I am grateful I chose to pursue this post-graduate certificate; it truly was the catalyst to a profession that I take great pride in every single day."
Shanna Reesor
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.