Automation Technician Program (Distance Education) (T950)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Automation Technician
Code:
T950
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Part-time
Duration:
32 weeks (approximately)
Starting Months:
Open enrolment
Domestic Tuition:
$1,780.00*
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Not Available
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Winter
2025
Not Available
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Spring
2025
Not Available
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation (T171)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
We developed the 32-week
Automation Technician
certificate program to meet the industry's growing demand for workers with a broad set of skills and knowledge in industrial automation, including digital electronics, process control, SCADA systems, and programming of Programmable Logic Controllers and robotics. This program examines applications and examples of automated manufacturing systems, including both the theory and function of digital and industrial electronics, hydraulics and pneumatics, robotics systems, programming languages, and alarm management. You'll learn through a combination of theory and laboratory simulations using LogixSim, a simulation software suite that includes electronics, PLC, and robotics simulation.
Full Description
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
The 32-week
Automation Technician
certificate program provides an introduction to industrial automation, including digital electronics, process control, SCADA systems and programming of PLCs, and robotics. The program examines applications and examples of automated manufacturing systems, including both the theory and function of digital and industrial electronics, hydraulics and pneumatics, robotics systems, programming languages, and alarm management.
The learning materials, provided in a web-based downloadable file format, include 18 modules of interactive curriculum using text, 2D and 3D animations, photos, audio clips, and interactive lab simulations. Interactive exercises, practice exams, and online support will prepare you for computer-based final exams. We designed these flexible computer-based modules to fit into your schedule––not ours––so you can work at your own pace while you complete the program. The average completion time of the 18 training modules is 32 weeks, but there are no time limits.
One of the key features of our Automation Technician program is the integration of theory with lab projects. You'll receive a licensed copy of LogixSim, which includes both 2D and 3D simulation software and features CircuitLogix Pro, RoboLogix, PLCLogix 5000, and 3DLab simulation products. This software allows for the design, testing, and debugging of control devices and automated equipment, as well as circuit schematics and systems. From the simplest control circuits to the most complex, LogixSim has the versatility to suit almost any requirement for real-world simulation.
Program Specific Computer Requirements
Minimum Computer Requirements
Intel Core i3, i5, i7, AMD Ryzen 3, 5, 7 or equivalent processor
4GB RAM
500 MB of available disk space
Windows 7/ Windows 8/Windows 8.1/Windows 10/Windows 11
32 and 64 bit compatible
Internet Access
Email Account
Note: Our program software is strictly made for Windows Operating Systems and will therefore only run on Windows-based computers. It will
NOT
work on Apple computers running Mac Operating Systems such as Macbook, Chromebook computers running Chrome Operating Systems such as Google Pixelbook or any device running Linux Operating Systems.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
This program prepares you for career opportunities in industrial automation and control. Automation Technicians design, install, and maintain equipment and work on a wide range of systems, including simple fuses, motor drives, PLCs, solid-state devices, and robotics.
Educational Pathways
Upon completion of the Automation Technician Certificate program, you may continue your studies and pursue a Certificate in Electromechanics (
www.emcourse.com
), PLCs (
www.plctechnician.com
) or Robotics (
www.onlinerobotics.com
).
Courses
Required Courses
The modules should be taken in the following order:
COMPULSORY (18)
Code
Course Name
ELNC 9116
Introduction to Automation
ELNC 9053
Industrial Control Devices
ELNC 9117
Motors & Control Circuits
ELNC 9035
Digital Electronics
ELCL 9060
Analog & Digital Transducers
ELNC 9055
Industrial Process Control
ELNC 9118
Distributed Control Systems
ELNC 9119
SCADA Systems
ELNC 9071
Overview of PLCs
ELNC 9095
Ladder Logic Programming
ELNC 9078
Timers
ELNC 9079
Counters
ELNC 9097
Data Handling
ELNC 9098
Math Instructions
ELNC 9101
Introduction to Robotics
ELNC 9108
Manipulators & End Effectors
ELNC 9112
Vision, Touch & Sound
ELNC 9113
Robot Programming
Detailed course outline
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$1,780.00*
Additional Costs
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
There is no additional cost. Students can pay tuition in full or pay-as-you-learn option as below.
Initial registration is $560 (includes all learning materials, laboratory simulation software, user guides and Module 1) and registration for each of the remaining 17 can be purchased singly or in groups at a later date. International applicants are charged the same fees but in U.S. dollars (US$560); the posted exchange rate in effect at the time of your registration will be used to determine the final fee in Canadian dollars. There is no refund on learning material.
*Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition and material for the program starting the Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for the program starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
The academic prerequisites for students entering into the Automation Technician program is a high school diploma, with credits at or above the general level or equivalent mature student status.
If you are 19 years or older and do not have a high school diploma, you may enroll as a mature student.
Special Requirements
International Students
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
How to Apply
Call 416-415-4726 or visit
automationprogram.com
.
Contact Us
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Call us at 416-415-4726 or toll-free at 1-888-553-5333.
E-mail:
info@gbctechtraining.com.
Check out the course details along with our interactive video tour at
automationprogram.com
.
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation (T171)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.