Bachelor of Business Administration (Trades Management) (Honours) (Pathway Motive Power Technician) Program (B306)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Bachelor of Business Administration (Trades Management) (Honours) (Pathway Motive Power Technician)
Code:
B306
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Online
Duration:
5 semesters (with up to 8 years for completion part-time)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
This is a flexible degree program and tuition will vary based on the course or courses you enrol in at any given time. Please contact the department for more information using this email: business@georgebrown.ca
Centre:
Business
School:
Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Not Available
Winter
2025
Open
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This program is a tri-college collaboration between Algonquin College, George Brown College, and Mohawk College. Each college is sharing their academic and industry expertise to deliver this innovative program.
Program Overview
Are you a graduate of the Motive Power Technician Ontario College Diploma program? Our
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Trades Management)
degree-completion program is the perfect next step for you. You'll enter the program in semester four and gain skills in business administration, management, accounting, project management, leadership, communication, and applied research competencies. Graduates of this program can become small-business owners or find leadership roles in trades-related fields, such as business manager, project manager, quality control manager, maintenance and trades manager, or service-related manager.
Full Description
This pathway is for graduates of the Motive Power Technician Ontario College Diploma program. Graduates of this program receive credit for 10 courses in the degree and enter the program in semester four.
The
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Trades Management)
program is a fully online degree-completion program that builds on your apprenticeship/journeyperson training or trade-related diploma program. You’ll graduate with a blend of practical knowledge and abilities that will prepare you to start your own business, manage a small to medium-sized trades-related business, or improve an existing one. The program is delivered by Mohawk, Algonquin and George Brown colleges, each with expertise in business management and trades programming, providing an innovative program that aligns with technological shifts in the industry.
This program is ideal for you if you’re interested in leadership roles, have an entrepreneurial spirit, and want to integrate your current skill set with business management. You should also be comfortable with an online learning format, which will allow you to continue to work while completing your degree.
For graduates who want to pursue further academic credentials, the program will facilitate a pathway into graduate studies in both business administration and management programs.
Here are some skills you’ll be able to show off after completion of the Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Trades Management) degree program:
Conducting research to make informed decisions for the success of the business
Using strategic planning techniques to stay competitive in the trades industry
Developing marketing strategies to grow trades-related businesses
Applying financial information to strategic decision-making
Your Field Education Options
An integral component of the Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Trades Management) degree program is mandatory field experience.
Students are required to complete a minimum of 420 hours (equivalent to 14 weeks) of a paid co-op experience either in one block or in multiple cumulative blocks. Through this opportunity, you will gain business experience in a real environment, often in a trades-related organization to enhance your professional development.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program may choose self-employment as a small business owner or find leadership roles in trades-related fields as:
business managers
project managers
quality control managers
maintenance and trades managers
service-related managers
Courses
Required Courses
The following guide for the courses in the B306 Bachelor of Business Administration (Trades Management) (Honours) (Pathway Motive Power Technician) degree program for semesters 4 to 8. Students must successfully complete 30 courses and 1 Integrated Experience in order to complete their degree. This includes 24 mandatory courses and 6 Liberal Studies electives of your choice from the arts and humanities, social science or science and technology.
Semester 4 (Bridging)
Course Code
Title
Pre-requisites
ECO1101
Microeconomics
NONE
ECO2101
Macroeconomics
ECO 1101
QUA2002
Statistics
NONE
BACC1012
Financial Accounting
NONE
BBUS2104
Principles of Business Management and Research Part 1
NONE
BBUS2105
Principles of Business Management and Research Part 2
NONE
Semester 5
Course Code
Title
Pre-requisites
BCMP2017
Computer Business Applications
NONE
MGMT2013
Risk Management
NONE
XBUS3500
Professional Practice
NONE
XMKT3501
Marketing
NONE
Select Two Liberal Studies Elective
Select Two Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 6
Course Code
Title
Pre-requisites
BLAW2015
Canadian Business Law
NONE
BACC2013
Managerial Accounting
NONE
MGT4602
Project Management
NONE
BFSM4111
Human Resource Management
NONE
Select Two Liberal Studies Elective
Select Two Liberal Studies Elective
BCOP3002  Work Integrated Learning (CO-OP)
Semester 7
Course Code
Title
Pre-requisites
BBUS 4011
Operations Management
NONE
MGT2015
Managing Small and Medium Enterprises
NONE
MGT2014
Management Information Systems
NONE
BACC3014
Finance
NONE
XMKT4700
Trades Marketing
NONE
XCRE4701
Capstone Applied Research Project I
NONE
Semester 8
Course Code
Title
Pre-requisites
XMGT4800
Strategic Thinking and Management
NONE
BBUS4107
International Business
NONE
MGT2012
Negotiation Strategies
NONE
XCRE4702
Capstone Applied Research Project II
NONE
Select Two Liberal Studies Elective
Select Two Liberal Studies Elective
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate will reliably demonstrate the ability to:
Support business objectives by leveraging the interdependencies of functional business units including human resources, marketing, finance and accounting.
Conduct research to support strategic and operational decisions.
Deploy strategic planning techniques to ensure competitive advantage in the trades industry.
Apply relevant project and risk management principles and tools to the management of trade businesses.
Identify opportunities and address challenges in trades businesses using creative and innovative approaches.
Apply principles of management to the operation of trades business ventures.
Plan, implement and manage marketing of trades-related products or services to foster business growth.
Comply with relevant laws, regulations, policies, ethical principles, and industry practices and standards.
Select and use appropriate software and other technologies to meet business goals.
Interpret financial information using management accounting concepts and apply to strategic decision-making.
Identify and apply discipline specific practices that contribute to the local and global community through cultural diversity, social responsibility, economic commitment and environmental stewardship.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
This is a flexible degree program and tuition will vary based on the course or courses you enrol in at any given time. Please contact the department for more information using this email: business@georgebrown.ca
Additional Costs
* This is a flexible degree program and tuition will vary based on the course or courses you enrol in at any given time. Please contact the department for more information using this email:
business@georgebrown.ca
+ Books and additional supplies are
not
included in the tuition fees and must be purchased by the student separately.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
post-secondary transcript
departmental review
Eligible Professions
Heavy Duty Equipment Technician
Heavy Equipment Operator (Dozer)
Heavy Equipment Operator (Tractor-Loader-Backhoe)
Lather (Interior Systems Mechanic)
Motor Vehicle Body Repairer (Metal and Paint) 2
Motorcycle Mechanic 2
Recreation Vehicle Service Technician
Truck and Transport Mechanic
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting starting December 21, 2020. In conformity with the Minister’s criteria and requirements, George Brown will submit an application for the renewal of the consent for this program 12 months prior to the expiration of the consent. George Brown will ensure that all students admitted to this program will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
HONOURS BACHELOR OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (Trades Management)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the co-ordinator:
Joyce Manu
, Program Co-ordinator
Email:
jmanu@georgebrown.ca
SOCIAL CHANNELS
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn.
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered through our
School of Management
which is located at our
St. James Campus
, at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.