Bachelor of Science in Nursing Program (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Code:
S118
Credential:
Toronto Metropolitan University Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
4 years (8 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$7,307.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
George Brown College at Toronto Metropolitan University Campus
,
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Clinical Placement
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Not Available
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
RPN Bridge to BScN (Postgraduate) (S442)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Bachelor of Science in Nursing
program is offered collaboratively between George Brown College, Toronto Metropolitan University, and Centennial College. This four-year degree is a requirement for anyone wishing to work as a registered nurse in the province of Ontario. This program, offered across all three sites, provides diverse clinical placements, simulation-based education, and interactive teaching and learning. Graduates can write the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX), apply for registration with the College of Nurses of Ontario, and pursue nursing positions in a variety of health-care settings. This program is accredited by the Canadian Association of Schools of Nursing (CASN).
Full Description
The
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
is a four-year collaborative degree program offered in partnership with George Brown,
Toronto Metropolitan University
, and Centennial College. Students admitted to the George Brown program complete their first two years at the George Brown campus and their final two years at the Toronto Metropolitan University campus. Throughout this four-year program, students can expect to be taught by faculty from both program streams.
This Bachelor of Science in Nursing program is committed to preparing nursing leaders who are highly competent, knowledgeable, and committed to playing an integral role in shaping our health-care future. The program educates nurses to work with persons and communities of diverse backgrounds, ages, degrees of health and illness, and in a variety of contexts.
The Bachelor of Science in Nursing curriculum, based on a philosophical foundation of phenomenology and critical social theory, has five themes that serve to organize content and are reflected in all years of the program in varying degrees of depth.
These five themes are:
primary health care/health promotion
reflective practice/critical thinking
meaningful relationships/caring/communication
political/social justice
personal/professional development
The program is also underpinned by several important concepts, addressed, discussed, and threaded throughout the Professional Practice in Nursing courses that are required across all four years.
These concepts include the following:
safety
scholarship
relational practice
determinants of health
diversity
professional nursing practice
leadership
health systems
teaching/learning
The curriculum is comprised of professional nursing courses and series of required and elective courses selected from other disciplines to enhance and support the broad knowledge base required of professional nurses. Students complete required professionally related courses in anatomy and physiology, microbiology, and psychology. Students are also required to select courses from a variety of liberal studies and open electives.
Learning is characterized as an interactive, lifelong process that involves the development of the learner as a person. Nursing students are recognized as adult learners responsible for their learning. This learning is fostered by a caring, collaborative student-educator relationship based on mutual trust and respect, where both students and educators are learners.
Year 1 and Year II – Studies to be completed at George Brown’s Waterfront Campus
Year I
of the program focuses on knowledge of self in the context of health. The student develops a theoretical perspective from which to view practice and an appreciation of the cultural diversity within the social and political context of society. There is an emphasis on the development of effective communication abilities and foundational nursing practice and health assessment skills.
In
Year II
, the focus of the program shifts to knowledge of others in the context of illness, including chronic and acute illness and end-of-life care. Students further develop their professional role in building therapeutic relationships with families. They also acquire knowledge of research methods and the ability to critically evaluate research findings for their utility in nursing practice.
Year III and Year IV – Studies to be completed at Toronto Metropolitan University’s campus
In
Year III,
students further develop the theme of health with an emphasis on knowledge of community, in the context of primary health care. Students acquire knowledge and skills in areas of maternal/child health, pediatrics and mental health. There is an emphasis on leadership, advocacy and social activism.
Year IV
focuses on the integration of the professional self into the health-care system as students prepare to transition to the role of a new graduate nurse. Students explore in-depth issues related to professional practice and demonstrate leadership skills.
Nursing practice experiences begin in the first year of the program and expose students to a broad range of clinical practice settings and the multiplicity of nursing roles. Nursing experiences occur primarily in community settings and hospitals within the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). Travel to various agencies throughout the GTA is an expectation.
Graduates of the George Brown College, Toronto Metropolitan University, and Centennial College Collaborative Nursing Degree Program are eligible to write the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX), and apply for registration with the College of Nurses of Ontario to become a Registered Nurse. New graduates will have access to career opportunities in acute, chronic or long-term care hospitals and institutions; clinics and community health organizations; public and occupational health settings; education, research, nursing administration, management and leadership roles.
PLEASE NOTE:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
Your Field Education Options
Students in the Bachelor of Science in Nursing program are exposed to a wide range of clinical practice environments and a variety of nursing roles as they participate in diverse clinical placement experiences.
Clinical placement experiences occur within or outside of the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), primarily in:
long-term care
acute care hospitals
community settings
Travel to various agencies throughout the GTA is an expectation.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Registered Nurses meet a wide range of simple to complex health-care needs, providing care to:
individuals
families
groups
communities
populations
Registered Nurses take a holistic approach to client care and analyze and synthesize a wide range of information using a variety of theories and clinical tools.
Registered Nurses work independently and as members of a health-care team.
They provide nursing leadership to the care team and act as coordinators of care for clients and families whose needs are complex.
Registered Nurses
are expected to
adhere to the regulatory standards
of the
College of Nurses of Ontario (CNO)
. These standards require them to be accountable for their decisions and actions and to maintain professionalism and competence throughout their careers.
Educational Pathways
B.Sc.N. degree graduates can apply for a master's level study to pursue a career in nursing research, education, leadership or complete a nurse practitioner program in primary or acute care.
George Brown College offers Registered Nurses a number of specialized training courses that include
Registered Nurse – Perinatal Intensive Care,
Registered Nurse – Operating Room Perioperative Nursing
,
Registered Nurse – Critical Care
and
Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care
.
Courses
Required Courses
YEAR 1
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
PPN 101
Professional Practice in Nursing 1: Introduction to the Nursing Profession
NSE 111
Foundations for Nursing Practice
NSE 101
Communication for the Nursing Professional
BLG 101
Anatomy and Physiology I
PSY102
Introduction to Psychology I
Liberal Studies Elective
Lower Liberal Studies (LLL)
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
PPN 102
Professional Practice in Nursing 2: Health, Wellness and the Role of the Nurse
NSE 121
Clinical Practice I
NSE 103
Introduction to Health Assessment
BLG 111
Anatomy and Physiology II
Liberal Studies Elective
Lower Level Liberal (LLL)
YEAR 2
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
PPN 201
Professional Practice in Nursing III: Living with Chronic Illness
PAT 201
Pathotherapeutics I
NSE 212
Nursing Research: Quantitative Methods
NSE 203
Advanced Health Assessment
NSE 211
Clinical Practice II
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
PPN 202
Professional Practice in Nursing IV: Experiencing Acute and Life-Threatening Illness
NSE 222
Nursing Research: Qualitative Methods
PAT 202
Pathotherapeutics II
BLG 131
Microbiology for Nursing
NSE 221
Clinical Practice III
Liberal Studies Elective
Lower Level Liberal (LLL)
YEAR 3
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
PPN 301
Professional Practice in Nursing V: Promoting Maternal and Child Health
NSE 311
Clinical Practice IV
Liberal Studies
Upper Level Liberal (ULL) studies
Open Elective
Open Elective
Open Elective
Open Elective
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
PPN 302
Professional Practice in Nursing VI: Promoting Community Health
NSE 321
Clinical Practice V
PPN 303
Professional Practice in Nursing VII: Promoting Mental Health
Liberal Studies
Upper Level Liberal (ULL) studies
Open Elective
Open Elective
Open Elective
Open Elective
YEAR 4
SEMESTER 7
Code
Course Name
PPN 401
Professional Practice in Nursing VIII: Transition to the Profession, Leadership and Change
NSE 411
Clinical Practice VI
PAT 401
Advanced Pathotherapeutics
Liberal Studies
Upper Level Liberal (ULL) studies
SEMESTER 8
Code
Course Name
NSE 421
Clinical Practice VII
PPN 402
Professional Practice in Nursing IX: Preparation for Independent Practice
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
Communication
1a. Applies clear and accurate verbal communication.
1b. Applies clear and accurate written communication.
1c. Applies principles and processes of relational practice and effective communication with individuals.
1d. Applies principles and processes of relational practice and effective communication with families.
1e. Applies principles and processes of relational practice and effective communication with groups.
1f. Applies principles and processes of relational practice and effective communication with communities.
Application of evidence-informed knowledge & care
2a. Applies broad knowledge base in nursing and other disciplines in the provision of evidence-informed care.
2b. Applies critical reasoning in decision-making and delivery of care
Inter/Intra professional care
3a. Collaborates with clients in supporting the achievement of health outcomes.
3b. Collaborates with inter-professional members in supporting the achievement of health outcomes.
3c. Collaborates with unregulated health care providers and other staff as a health care team in supporting the achievement of health outcomes.
Culturally safe/sensitive practice
4a. Implements culturally safe and competent care to address the health needs of diverse individuals.
4b. Implements culturally safe and competent care to address the health needs of diverse families.
4c. Implements culturally safe and competent care to address the health needs of diverse communities
Ethical and Legal practice
5a. Demonstrates ethical practice, professional responsibility and accountability to clients and organizations within all domains of nursing practice.
5b. Strategies & Interventions
5c. Plans effective interventions to manage care within health systems.
Strategies and Interventions
6a. Plans effective interventions to manage care within health systems
Technology
7a. Incorporates information and communication technologies, and digital tools to support the delivery of client care that meets evidence-informed, organizational, ethical, regulatory and legislative requirements.
Leadership & Advocacy
8a. Demonstrates effective leadership in practice and facilitates change and innovation across practice situations and settings.
8b. Demonstrates effective advocacy in practice and facilitates change and innovation across practice situations and settings
Safety
9a. Contributes to a culture of safety in the provision of quality healthcare.
9b. Identifies limits to own knowledge and ability in the provision of safe quality healthcare.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,307.00 *
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
During year one and year two of your program at George Brown College, your OSAP application should mention George Brown College as your educational institution.
During years three and year four of your program at Toronto Metropolitan University, your OSAP application should mention Toronto Metropolitan University as your educational institution.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent with six Grade 12 (M or U) courses including:
grade 12 English (ENG4U)
grade 12 Biology (SBI4U)
grade 12 Chemistry (SCH4U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) MCF3M , MCR3U or Grade 12 (U) MHF4U, MCV4U, MDM4U
Applicants with prior university or college study must present a minimum combined grade point average (CGPA) of 2.33 (C+) and be considered “In Good Standing” with no failures in core prerequisite subjects to be considered. Higher CGPAs/averages may be required subject to competition.
The grade(s) required in the subject prerequisites will be subject to competition. Typically, a minimum grade of 70 per cent in each subject prerequisite and a minimum average of 80 per cent for six grade 12 M/U courses establishes eligibility for admission consideration. Actual minimum grade ranges and average of top six grade 12 M/U courses required for admission will be determined based on grades and qualifications presented by the applicant pool as they become available. Required grades and average may fluctuate from year to year (up or down) as a result of competition. This means candidates may be required to present averages/grades above the minimum.
This is a highly competitive program. As a result, all applications, including all supporting documentation (official transcripts, Supplementary Application Forms, outstanding grades, etc.), must be received on or before the equal consideration deadline date of February 1.
MATURE STUDENT STATUS:
Must be 21 years of age by December 31 of the year in which they will commence studies; must have been away from formal education for at least two years; and must be Canadian Citizens, or permanent residents, or sponsored by a Canadian governmental agency.
Mature applicants must have all admission requirements as listed, except for Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent with six grade 12 (M or U).
This program is open to domestic applicants only.
Notes:
ENG4U/EAE4U is the preferred English credit.
All applicants not currently enrolled in a full-time high school program,
or
, at the request of George Brown College, must also complete the
Collaborative Nursing Supplementary Application Form.
Applicants who have been absent from full-time formal education for a period of 10 years or longer must repeat prerequisite subjects to ensure currency of knowledge and preparedness for the program.
Only applications to the first year of the Nursing program will be considered, and consideration is limited to applicants
without
prior post-secondary studies in Nursing. Advanced standing for students with prior nursing studies cannot be considered.
Prior application information, including transcripts, Supplementary Application Forms and residency/language information must be submitted for each application cycle. Documentation from
prior
applications to this, or other programs at George Brown College, will not be used to meet admissions requirements for a new application to this program.
For more information, you may visit our
program website
.
Submitting International Documentation
Applicants with international education must submit
original official transcripts
in support of their application. Documents, sealed by the issuing institution, should be submitted to Ontario Colleges. An evaluation of these documents will not be accepted as meeting the admission requirements. If your documents are in a language other than English, you must also provide a certified/notarized literal English translation.
To review education equivalencies, and required international documentation, please view the
TMU website
.
Please Note:
This is a collaborative program that follows Toronto Metropolitan University's admissions policy on the collection of documents:
"You are personally responsible for the submission of both secondary and all post-secondary school academic transcripts, regardless of the date of completion and the country of origin. You should make all the necessary arrangements for submission of required transcripts at the time of application to ensure documents are received by applicable deadlines. Academic studies required for admission must be completed or in progress at the time of application. Transcripts must show the individual marks or grades achieved in each course or subject taken, as well as the diploma/ degree awarded (if applicable)."
Additional Nursing Program Requirements
In accordance with the policy of the program, the Public Hospitals Act, other legislation and the requirements of the practice placement settings, the Practice Requirements Record must be completed in its entirety by your health-care provider and all supporting documents must be attached. Practice requirements record form with full instructions can be obtained from the
GBC Clinical Pre-placement office
.
Requisite Skills and Abilities for Nurses
Applicants who wish to qualify to become a registered nurse in Ontario are strongly encouraged to review the requisite skills for nurses listed on the
College of Nurses website
.
English Language Proficiency Requirement
Applicants from a country where English is not the first language, or where English is an official language but not the first language, may be required to present proof of English Language proficiency. To review these requirements, please see the information posted on
Toronto Metropolitan University's English Language page
.
Special Requirements
Practice Requirement Record (PRR) Form and Program Policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, new or returning students must meet all mandatory requirements listed on the practice requirement record form. It may take up to four months to complete all the requirements.
Please note that Toronto Metropolitan University only notifies the George Brown College admissions office of the list of all new students after they have all paid their deposit fee by the deadline in July.
After August 1, students will be notified by mail to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres, Tdap shot valid every 10 years and Two Step TB Skin Test), a clear
police vulnerable sector check
renewed every year,
CPR level HCP
renewed every year, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the given deadline to
ParaMed.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations that students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
For further details and to download the mandatory PRR form, please go to the
pre-placement website
.
Police Vulnerable Sector Check (Renewed every year)
Police Vulnerable Sector Checks
are done to protect clientele who are considered “vulnerable persons.” A “clear” police check means that there is currently no police record found for that individual in the jurisdiction surveyed.
A “not clear” police check means that there is a police record found for the individual for an undisclosed reason. Students are required to keep the original vulnerable sector screening – police reference check.
It is the placement agency that will make the decision whether or not to accept the student for placement. This agency decision may require the student to self-disclose the particulars of the “not clear” police check. Students have the right to not disclose the particulars of the “not clear” police check. This check must be renewed every year before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Police Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Police Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
Students who currently reside in another region (such as Durham, Halton, Hamilton, Peel and York or other regions) are strongly advised to apply for their police check after October 1, as their regional police service either take same day requests or two to four weeks to process, and some placement agency partners may need it valid within three to six months. Students are required to keep the original copy of their police vulnerable sector check.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
Visit
Police Vulnerable Sector Check page
for more information in how to apply for police vulnerable sector check and fees according to your regional police service.
Students denied placement by the clinical agency on the grounds of a "Not Clear" Police check will not be able to complete their clinical practice placement, and it will jeopardize their progress in the program.
International students will need to retain the police clearance document that was used to obtain their study permit.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2367
Email:
nursing@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
RPN Bridge to BScN (Postgraduate) (S442)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
"When I started Nursing at George Brown College, I had an idea of what I wanted to do as a nurse in the future, but I really had no idea of the limitless opportunities. I think it’s the best career if you're somebody who wants variety and change and to always be in an exciting, ever-changing career."
Gita McAllister
Toronto Metropolitan University Bachelor's Degree
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.