Baking and Pastry Arts Management Program (H113)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Baking and Pastry Arts Management
Code:
H113
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters, non-consecutive)
Starting Months:
May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$6,711.00 * †
International Tuition:
$20,750.00 ** †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing and that is why all of our programs at CHCA have incorporated work-integrated learning opportunities.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Open
Opens Aug 6, 2024
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Baker / Patissier Apprentice Program (H600)
Baking and Pastry Foundations (H128)
Advanced French Patisserie (Postgraduate) (H413)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Gain advanced patisserie training and develop the management skills needed to operate a successful business in the two-year
Baking and Pastry Arts Management
program. Located in downtown Toronto, surrounded by top bakeries, catering companies, hotels and pastry shops, George Brown College provides an excellent place to learn, get inspired and unleash your creativity.
Full Description
Get ready to launch an exciting career with the two-year
Baking and Pastry Arts Management (H113)
diploma program. Under the guidance of top baking professionals, you will develop core skills in a wide range of specialized areas, including:
chocolate an
d confec
tions
specialty cakes
modern bakery café
tarts and pastries
plated desserts
artisan bread and breakfast pastries
petits fours, laminated dough and viennoiseries
artisan sugar co
nfec
tions
Instruction in industry standards and practices regarding sanitation and production management is also included.
These skills will set you up for success in high-end bakery and pastry arts. Your classroom work will include case studies designed to develop and perfect your baking skills. You will also complete an industry work-integrated learning experience you can add to your resumé.
On the business side, you will learn the key skills that are necessary to run a successful baking operation, including business planning, leadership and motivation, sales and marketing, and product packaging, showcasing and distribution methods.
Program Schedule
The Baking and Pastry Arts Management program currently operates from Monday to Friday. Some classes may begin as early as 7am, and others may end as late as 11pm.
Applicants who start in September will have a break during the spring/summer term (they will not be in classes).
Applicants who start in May will have a break during the winter term (they will not be in classes).
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Your Field Education Options
As part of the program, you will complete an industry externship. George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the program's learning outcomes.
This valuable work experience can be added to your resumé. In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide learning opportunities with real-world challenges and customers.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
George Brown College has an international reputation for producing talented and creative baking and pastry graduates who are working at the cutting edge of the industry all around the world. You can begin a rewarding career in a commercial bakery, hotel, catering company or one of the countless bakeries, specialty cake and pastry shops located all over the world. You can even combine the skills you’ve learned with your entrepreneurial spirit and start your own business.
Educational Pathways
As a graduate of any culinary or baking and pastry management program in Ontario (or one-year certificate program with one year of industry experience), you are eligible to apply for our
Advanced French Patisserie postgraduate program (H413)
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOSF1145
Sanitation
HOSF1094
Baking and Pastry Arts Theory I
HOSF1093
Baking and Pastry Arts Skills I
HOSF1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
COMM2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH1200
Culinary Math Essentials
GSCI1035
Science of Sustainability
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HOSF1287
WHMIS
HOST1068
Smart Serve
HOSF1097
Baking and Pastry Arts Theory II
HOSF1096
Baking and Pastry Arts Skills II
HOSF1224
Dessert Menu Management*
HOSF2060
Baking and Pastry Production I*
HOST1126
Career Preparation*
HOSF1255
Nutrition Fundamentals from a Culinary Perspective
HOSF1206
Cost Control* (hybrid)
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
HOSF2032
Baking and Pastry Arts Skills III*
HOSF2033
Baking and Pastry Arts Theory III*
HOST2065
Industry Externship*
HOSF2061
Baking and Pastry Production II*
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
HOSF2052
Baking and Pastry Arts Skills IV
HOST1035
Marketing and Entrepreneurship*
HOST2074
Cheese and Beverage*
HOSF2058
Baking and Pastry Arts Theory IV
HOSF2081
Hospitality Leadership and Communication
GNED
General Education Elective
* seven-week course
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 Introduction to College Communication before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Research and design a variety of bakery, pastry and confectionary-related products that meet the needs of a range of food service environments.
Produce and present a variety of bakery, pastry and confectionary-related products that meet the needs of a range of food service environments.
Apply fundamental nutritional principles, including recipe modifications, to all aspects of baking production, with an awareness of potential allergens and dietary requirements.
Apply effective kitchen management skills in order to responsibly use resources in a baking and pastry operation.
Identify effective business practices, including marketing and cost control in the management of a pastry and baking operation.
Identify human resource management practices as they relate to the hospitality industry.
Develop ongoing personal strategies and plans to enhance hospitality leadership in a baking and pastry arts environment.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$6,711.00 * †
International Tuition
$20,750.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.  This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
† Additional Cost
Description
Cost
Small wares
$100 – $300
Manuals and books
$400
Note: Semester 1 tuition fees include the cost of a baking kit, safety shoes, and Chef School uniform.
Please view the following for a detailed list of what is contained in the baking kit:
George Brown Baking Kit Detailed List
George Brown Baking Kit Visual
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
Grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice, and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
Apply to
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Please note:
Applicants who start in September (Fall) will have a break during the Spring/Summer term (i.e., they will not be in classes).
Applicants who start in May (Spring) will have a break during the Winter term (i.e., they will not be in classes).
* There is no fast-track option for this program
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens including nuts, dairy and shellfish are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
BAKING AND PASTRY ARTS MANAGEMENT (H113)
For general Chef School inquiries, please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Baker / Patissier Apprentice Program (H600)
Baking and Pastry Foundations (H128)
Advanced French Patisserie (Postgraduate) (H413)
“I really enjoyed the quality of teaching from the instructors. Every day, I learned something new. The program gave me a solid background to build on.”
D’oyen Christie
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.