Behavioural Science Technician Program (C146)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Behavioural Science Technician
Code:
C146
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,770.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,887.00 **
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Health & Wellness
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field education in semesters 2, 3 and 4.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Autism and Behavioural Science (Postgraduate) (C405)
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (S302)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing students to work in the field of behavioural science for more than 15 years.
All full-time program faculty are Board-Certified Behaviour Analysts (BCBAs), some of whom are alumni.
Program Overview
The
Behavioural Science Technician
diploma program will teach you how to use Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA) to support meaningful changes in people's lives.
Full Description
The two-year
Behavioural Science Technician (C146)
diploma program will teach you the science of behavioural change, otherwise known as
Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA).
In this field of study, students will learn behavioural principles, practice
assessment
and intervention procedures, and develop professional skills to seek employment in a variety
of
workplaces (autism, mental health, gerontology, acquired brain injury, organizational behaviour management, sport, etc.)
Please note that this program does not teach counselling or "talk therapy."
The themes studied in the Behavioural Science Technician program include:
behavioural theory
behavioural assessment
scientific method
ethics and professionalism
behavioural acquisition and reduction strategies
general education with an emphasis on practical application in the field
The Behavioural Science Technician coursework and placement experiences prepare students for direct implementation roles in a variety of settings.
Students who elect to transfer to our degree program and/or continue their education in behaviour analysis may find employment opportunities with additional responsibilities.
For applicants who have a bachelor's degree with a major in psychology or a related discipline, we offer an intensive delivery of this program
[Behavioural Science Technician (Accelerated) (C156)]
leading to a diploma in less than one year.
To learn more about the work of a behavioural science technician, search the web using these keywords:
behaviour analysis
applied behaviour analysis
intensive behavioural intervention
operant conditioning
Alternatively, you can visit these industry-specific websites for more information on this field of study:
Association of Behaviour Analysis International
The Ontario Association for Behaviour Analysis, Inc.
Association of Professional Behavior Analysts
Behavior Analyst Certification Board
Your Field Education Options
The field placement component in this Behavioural Science Technician program will give you the opportunity to apply the theory you've learned in the classroom to a real-world environment.
Offered in semesters 2, 3 and 4, each field experience builds upon the previous one and provides exposure to a variety of work environments. The depth and breadth of these opportunities not only enrich your overall learning experience but will allow you to start building your own professional network within the sector. Field placements are unpaid and completed on a full-time basis.
George Brown faculty will work with you and our extensive network of community partners to secure you a placement.
NOTE
: Field education may require travel due to the number of opportunities for appropriate placements within the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). You may be required to travel to locations as far east as Oshawa, as far west as Burlington and as far north as Vaughan.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Behavioural Science Technician graduates are employed in a variety of settings with diverse populations across the lifespan. Work responsibilities will include understanding and analyzing behaviour to support behaviour change.
Behavioural Science Technician graduates may find employment as:
instructor therapist
behaviour therapist
behaviour technician
behaviour consultant
resource facilitator
employee of residential facilities, vocational agencies or other specialized agencies
Educational Pathways
Graduates of any approved two-year Ontario College Behavioural Science Technician program (C146) with a GPA of 3.0 or higher will be eligible to enter the bridging pathway into the third year of the
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis degree program (S303)
. For more information about this degree pathway, please email Program Co-ordinator Don Togade at
Don.Togade@georgebrown.ca
.
International students who have successfully completed the
Behavioural Science Technician (C146)
program may apply to the
S303 Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (Year 3 Bridge)
program stream by contacting Program Co-ordinator Don Togade at
Don.Togade@georgebrown.ca
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
BST 1003
Behavioural Theory
BST 1007
Behaviour Theory and Practice: Introduction to ABA
BST 1021
Lifespan Development
BST 1022
Introduction to Psychology
BST 1028
Strategies for Student Success
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication
Or
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Context**
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
BST 1029
Developmental Disabilities in Ontario: Policy and Process
BST 1030
Behaviour Theory and Practice: Behavioural Assessment
BST 1031
Interpersonal and Group Skills
BST 1032
Ethics and Professionalism
BST 2009
Field Seminar I
BST 2014
Field Placement I
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
BST 2035
Research Design and Statistics
BST 2036
Behaviour Theory and Practice: Acquisition Strategies
BST 2037
Behaviour Theory and Practice: Reduction Strategies
BST 2027
Field Seminar II
BST 2038
Field Placement II
PSY 2017
Abnormal Psychology
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
BST 2039
Special Populations: Childhood Issues
BST 2040
Special Populations: Acquired Brain Injury and Gerontology
BST 2041
Behaviour Theory and Practice: Group-Based Interventions
BST 2042
Field Seminar III
BST 2043
Field Placement III
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
web page for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Implement effective behaviour analytic intervention strategies based on the science of Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA) in order to increase desired behaviours, teach new skills and decrease contextually problematic behaviours.
Integrate background information and knowledge of special populations into therapeutic practice, in order to develop behavioural interventions using a behaviour analytic approach.
Communicate with various stakeholders the behaviour analytic principles, processes and concepts central to the interventions being provided in order to enhance quality of service.
Compile measurements of behaviour in accordance with the ONTABA standards of practice and the Behaviour Analyst Certification Board's Guidelines for Responsible conduct in order to conduct behavioural assessments and develop behavioural interventions.
Apply systems thinking to behavioural processes related to socially significant behaviour change in order to ensure the sustainability of behaviour change programs that increase an individual’s quality of life.
Adhere to federal, provincial and professional policies and regulations associated with the ethical practice of Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA) among various populations or service sectors.
Apply input gained from collaboration with stakeholders (including individuals, family members and community members) and professionals in the field of service into effective client service intervention.
Develop a reflective practice, using professional development and self-care strategies to enhance professional competence.
Develop client-centred behavioural intervention plans that account for individuals’ rights, needs, goals and their social and community context.
Integrate the conceptual and philosophical underpinnings of behaviour analysis into a comprehensive case formulation of human behaviour to assist in the assessment, design and implementation of behaviour change programs.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,770.00 *
International Tuition
$17,887.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and of the selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
Grade 12 English (C or U)
Note:
Although not required for admission purposes, one of the following courses is recommended for your success in the program.
Grade 11 Math (M or U) or Grade 12 (C or U)
AND
Science - One course from this list: Biology, Grade 12 (U) or Grade 11 (C or U); Chemistry, Grade 12 (C or U) or Grade 11 (U); Physics, Grade 12 (C or U) or Grade 11 (U)
** Mature Student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice, and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Students will be expected to engage with technology on a regular basis. George Brown requires the use of the learning management system (Brightspace); word processing, presentation, and data/graphing software; and other programs/apps.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form requirements and program policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 8 to 10 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(TDAP shot, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres and Two-Step TB Skin Test) and proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year. These requirements must be submitted by the program specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination:
Public Health recommends that people working with young children and other vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student. To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a Vulnerable Sector Check completed, and this check must be renewed every year before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered "vulnerable persons" under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for "individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s)”.
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a "clear" vulnerable sector check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a "not clear" status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit
Clinical Pre-placement website.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Call the George Brown School of Health and Wellness at 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. or E-mail
hwprograms@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Autism and Behavioural Science (Postgraduate) (C405)
Honours Bachelor of Behaviour Analysis (S302)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Louis Busch is passionate about behaviour analysis and its potential for improving people's lives. The behaviour therapist with the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH) uses behaviour analysis – interventions to bring about positive behaviour change – to help individuals with autism, acquired brain injury, intellectual and developmental disabilities and mental health issues. Busch created and implemented a successful pilot program to increase the capacity of staff in community group homes to care for individuals with complex needs and challenging behaviour. The program has since been expanded province-wide. Bear Clan Cree from the Nisichawayasihk Cree Nation, Busch also consults with CAMH's aboriginal outreach program.
Louis Busch
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.