Building Information Modeling Management Program (BIM) (Postgraduate) (T412)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Building Information Modeling Management
Code:
T412
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$9,468.00 *
International Tuition:
$26,935.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Experience Semester
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Construction Management (for Internationally Educated Professionals) (Postgraduate) (T403)
Residential Construction Management (Postgraduate) (T408)
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T312)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Ontario’s first graduate certificate in Building Information Modelling.
95 per cent of graduates gain full-time employment in the construction sector.
Program Overview
This 1-year program is eligible for
a $20,000 scholarship.
*
The
Building Information Modelling Management
one-year graduate certificate program provides hands-on training, teaching you to apply the principles of Building Information Modelling (BIM) to all aspects of a project, from conceptualization to operation. When you graduate, you'll be able to deploy BIM applications in any organization involved in the procurement, design, construction, and operation of building facilities. You'll also be able to use BIM technologies and management processes in all phases of a construction project.
*Domestic students only — see page for details.
Full Description
As a graduate of our
Building Information Modelling Management
one-year graduate certificate program, you'll have the knowledge to use BIM tools and implement BIM Management processes in any organization involved in the procurement, design, construction, and operation of buildings.
Key features of the program:
Access to our advanced BIM lab facilities.
Learn practical skills in a work environment, as well as through online and short modules.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
What are typical companies that accept BIM students for field experience?
Companies include large, medium, and small architectural, engineering, general contracting firms, subcontracting companies, government building departments, project developers, construction management firms, suppliers, and building manufacturing firms.
What professional credentials can I achieve through the T412 program?
Graduating students will have completed many of the educational prerequisites for certification through the Canada BIM Council.
Is there a requirement for field experience in this program?
Yes. Students must complete 450 hours of field experience.
Does the college guarantee a field experience for each student enrolled in the program?
George Brown College assists students in securing a field experience position, but the college makes no guarantee. It is up to each student to do everything possible to secure an approved field placement, either through a position the college advertises, or through their own independent job search. Securing a position within the industry is a competitive process and the employer makes the final decision.
Is the student field experience compensated?
It is the expectation that students will be compensated for their field experience. Some field experience may be paid, unpaid, commission-based, or given as an honorarium.
Can my previous work experience in BIM be considered toward the mandatory field experience?
It is the expectation that the student will complete their field experience in the third semester. Please see the program co-ordinator for more information.
What educational opportunities are available upon completion of this program?
Graduates of this program are required to apply to graduate schools themselves, as universities have unique admission requirements.
Is there an opportunity for students to engage in BIM-related applied research while completing the BIM program?
Yes. Please see the program co-ordinator for more information.
Your Field Education Options
The three-semester graduate certificate program includes a field experience in semester 3 to help students transition into the job market.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Upon graduation, you'll be able to practice in various project environments in positions that may include:
BIM modeler
BIM specialist
BIM technologist
BIM co-ordinator
BIM construction officer
BIM manager
energy modeler
3D laser scanner
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
BIM 1002
BIM – Management
BIM 1006
BIM – Pre-Construction Visualization
BIM 1007
BIM – Revit-Architecture
BIM 1008
BIM – Revit-Structures & MEP
BIM 1009
BIM – Civil 3D
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
BIM 1010
BIM – Implementation Strategies
BIM 1011
BIM – Project Planning
BIM 1012
Building Energy Modeling
BIM 1013
BIM – Capstone Project
BIM 1015
BIM Techniques – 3D Scanning
BIM 1024
Field Experience Preparation
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
BIM 1018
Construction Business Management (online)
BIM 1019
Leadership and Ethics for Construction Managers (Online)
BIM 1020
Field Experience (450h)
The program is continuously reviewed and adjusted to meet the needs of the construction industry and therefore may be subject to change.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has demonstrated the ability to:
Assess requirements for construction industry Building Information Modeling (BIM) planning and management for Integrated Project Delivery (IPD).
Formulate strategies for leadership, team-building and personnel management.
Analyze BIM processes in integrated project delivery for the project lifecycle.
Conduct project risk analysis using BIM processes.
Execute appropriate BIM management techniques to facilitate integrated project delivery.
Apply team-building skills in an interdisciplinary setting and implement in projects collaborative design and construction solutions.
Utilize BIM tools and platforms to create virtual models.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$9,468.00 *
International Tuition
$26,935.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the
three
semesters of the program starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs/semester starting in Fall 2024/Winter 2025 and later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Domestic
Total tuition for the program is $9,468 and it can be paid in 3 installments as follows:
(due date for fall semester fees) – $3,438 – semester 1
(due date for winter semester fees) – $3,022 – semester 2
(due date for spring semester fees) – $3,008 –  semester 3
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor's degree or Advanced Diploma (3-year) in Construction, Civil, Mechanical, Electrical and Landscape Engineering, Architectural Studies and Interior Design.
Proof of English language proficiency required where international transcripts are submitted*
*Please note that domestic applicants who are submitting international transcripts require a Canadian equivalency evaluation. This can be obtained through ICAS (International Credential Assessment Service) at
icascanada.ca
or WES (World Education Services) at
wes.org/ca.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
Course Exemptions
Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Laptop and Internet Specifications
The Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management strongly recommends that students own or purchase a laptop and arrange for home Internet service with 25 to 40 Mbps and a ping time of 20–100 ms.
The laptop specifications should meet or exceed the following specifications:
operating system: Windows 10 Home 64-bit English
processor: 9th Generation Intel® Core™ i7-9750H (12MB Cache, up to 4.5 GHz, 6 cores)
memory (RAM): 16GB (2x8GB  DDR4 2666MHz)
disk space: 256GB M.2 PCIe NVMe Solid State Drive (Boot) + 1TB 5400 rpm 2.5" SATA Hard Drive (Storage)
display card: NVIDIA® GeForce RTX™ 2060 6GB GDDR6
connectivity: 802.11ac WiFi and Bluetooth, 2 x 2
ports: 1x HDMI 2.0; 3x SuperSpeed USB 3.1 Gen 1 Type-A including 1x with PowerShare; 1x 2-in-1 SD / MicroMedia Card slot; 1x Wedge lock slot
screen size: minimum 15.6 inch FHD(1920 x 1080) 300nits IPS Anti-Glare LED backlit display with 144Hz refresh rate
audio: 1 combo headphone / microphone jack
Purchase of a Mac laptop is not recommended because many of the programs used will not run on a Mac and you will have difficulty in completing assignments.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management
Office Hours:
8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room E228
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 6297
Email:
construction_mgmt@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
.
Explore related programs:
Construction Management (for Internationally Educated Professionals) (Postgraduate) (T403)
Residential Construction Management (Postgraduate) (T408)
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T312)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.