Business Administration – Marketing Program (with work experience) (B158)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Business Administration – Marketing
Code:
B158
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters in-class, 2 semesters work experience)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,798.00 * †
International Tuition:
$17,925.00 ** †
Centre:
Business
School:
Marketing
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Work Experience (Co-op or Internship) Required
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Marketing Management – Digital Media (Postgraduate) (B433)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Business Administration - Marketing (with work experience)
three-year advanced diploma program opens doors to exciting and fast-moving careers in marketing. In this program, students will participate in real-world projects and case studies through a combination of hands-on and project-based learning. Plus, you'll gain valuable work experience that's sure to impress prospective employers.
This diploma program prepares students for careers in a wide range of fields, like ad agencies, marketing consulting firms, telecommunications and media, digital marketing, retailers, banks, government, not-for-profits, and small businesses.
Full Description
The advanced diploma
Business Administration – Marketing (with work experience)
program differs from the two-year diploma by offering hands-on learning opportunities with industry partners, as well as digital marketing courses, international marketing courses, marketing research courses, and marketing strategy courses. You can also take extra business electives to broaden your horizons.
Here are some skills you’ll be able to show off after completion of the Business Administration - Marketing program:
Identifying your target market and developing an integrated marketing communication strategy
Conducting market research to help inform marketing decisions
Evaluating the viability of marketing products, concepts, goods, or services internationally
Creating a marketing plan that includes marketing objectives, marketing mix, marketing strategies, budgets, and evaluation criteria
Understanding and integrating digital marketing and social media into a marketing plan
Students can also network and build skills through a variety of extracurricular activities at George Brown—just one of the many ways our School of Marketing helps students get the most out of their business education. Activities may include:
Ontario Colleges Marketing Competition
Vanier BDC Case Challenge
Enactus George Brown
Speed mentoring event
Great Canadian Sales Competition
Ad Week
View our video below to hear from students and professors about their experiences with our diploma Marketing programs at the
School of Marketing
, one of four specialized schools in our business school called the
Centre for Business
.
Earn Your College Credential from a Business School Accredited by ACBSP
Fourteen programs at the Centre for Business have earned international recognition from the
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs
(ACBSP). Advanced diploma and diploma programs at the Schools of Accounting and Finance, Human Resources, Management, and Marketing and the Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Financial Services) program at the School of Accounting and Finance have ACBSP accreditation. George Brown is now one of only two colleges in Ontario to have earned ACBSP accreditation.
Your Field Education Options
Work Experience (co-op or internship work term)
This program requires the successful completion of two semesters of work experience to graduate. This work experience is either co-op (paid) or internship (unpaid). Either one will give you the practical experience employers value.
George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students then apply for these opportunities and go through a competitive interview process. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the learning outcomes of the program. This valuable work experience can in turn be added to your resumé.
In addition to on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide field education opportunities with real world challenges and clients. Find out more about
field education
at the
Centre for Business
.
MARKETING ASSOCIATIONS MEMBERSHIP
George Brown Marketing students have access to membership to two of Canada’s premier marketing associations, the CMA and IAB, included in their tuition fees:
Canadian Marketing Association (CMA)
membership includes:
Live and online events, with free or reduced member pricing
Professional development opportunities
Tools, resources, and guides for members only
Networking opportunities with thousands of marketers
Exclusive access to
CMA NXT
, a site dedicated to filling the gap between post-secondary education and professional life
Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB)
membership includes:
Student volunteer (and networking) opportunities for marquee events
Members-only webinars and podcasts
Original Canadian digital marketing research
Globally accepted digital ad standards
Globally standardized courses, certification, and custom workshops
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates from the three-year marketing program are prepared for careers in a wide range of business sectors, including advertising agencies, marketing consulting firms, telecommunication and media, digital marketing, retailers, banks and other financial institutions, government, not-for-profit and small businesses. Graduates from the program have found employment as:
marketing co-ordinator
account executive
product manager
social media co-ordinator
digital marketing manager
media planner or media buyer
market researcher
event marketer
sales account manager
small business owner
web content manager
Educational Pathways
For information on additional future study options, see our
transfer guide
.
This program opens the door to further marketing programs at George Brown College in both post-diploma and degree programs.  Click on the specific links for more details.
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Digital Marketing) Program B312
Sport and Event Marketing Program (Postgraduate) B400
Marketing Management – Financial Services Program (Postgraduate) B406
Strategic Relationship Marketing Program (Postgraduate) B409
Marketing Management – Digital Media Program (Postgraduate) B433
Courses
Required Courses
In order to graduate from the
B158 program
, you need to complete
38 courses
:
31
mandatory courses, 4 Business electives,
3
General Education electives and complete
2
Work Experience terms. Work Experience can be co-op, internship, simulation, consulting or research projects.
Depending on the results of your placement tests, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. Similarly, you may be required to take MATH 1027 (Business Math with Remediation) before progressing to MATH 1008. COMM 1000 and MATH 1027
do not
count toward the
39
courses required for graduation, and
you will be charged for these extra courses.
Please speak to the Business Office staff if you need any assistance.
General Education Courses (semesters 2, 3 and 4):
You must complete
three
General Education courses chosen from at least
two
of the following categories: Social Sciences (GSSC), Arts and Humanities (GHUM) or Science and Technology (GSCI).
You are required to make up any failed or dropped courses before you are eligible to graduate
. You can make up these courses during the day, and some are offered in the evening through Continuing Education. Please check with the business office staff to ensure that the Continuing Education courses are equivalent to what is taught in the full-time program. Please note that some courses may not be offered in every semester. Our staff can assist you with any special timetable requirements you may have.
SEMESTER 1
CODE
COURSES
PRE-REQUISITE
BUS 1038
Business Concepts I
NONE
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
NONE
COMP 1010
Business Computer Applications I
NONE
MARK 1020
Principles of Marketing I
NONE
MARK 1046
Marketing Today
NONE
MATH 1008
Math for Business & Management
NONE
SEMESTER 2
CODE
COURSES
PRE-REQUISITE
ACCT 1036
Principles of Accounting
NONE
COMM 1034
Professional Communication I
COMM 2000
COMP 1115
Business Computer Applications II
COMP 1010
MARK 2049
Principles of Marketing II
MARK 1020 & MARK 1046
CMMK 1087
Human Skills
NONE
MATH 1131
Mathematical Analysis for Marketers
MATH 1008
Select One General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
CODE
COURSES
PRE-REQUISITE
CMMK 2034
Advanced Communication for Marketers
COMM 1034
ECON 1034
Introduction to Economics
NONE
MARK 1055
Integrated Marketing Communication (IMC 1)
MARK 2049
MARK 2007
Marketing Research
MARK 2049 & MATH 1131
STAT 1012
Business Statistics
MATH 1131
BUS 1000
Work Experience Prep Course*
COMM 2000 & 3.0 GPA
PSY 1129
Organizational Behavior
NONE
* This course is mandatory only for students taking the Work Experience Option (B158)
SEMESTER 4
CODE
COURSES
PRE-REQUISITE
MARK 1002
Professional Selling
MARK 1020
MARK 2033
Database Marketing I
MARK 2049
BUS 1056
Business Presentation Skills
COMM 2000
MARK 2065
Career Planning for Marketing
MARK 2049
MARK 2069
Digital Marketing I
MARK2049
Select One General Education Elective
SEMESTER 5
CODE
COURSES
PRE-REQUISITE
MARK 2054
Consumer Behaviour for Marketing
MARK 2049
MARK 2063
Advertising and Media Campaign Development (IMC 2)
MARK 1055
BUS 1040
Project Management
NONE
HRM 1008
Fundamentals of Human Resources
NONE
Select One Business Electives
Select One General Education Elective
SEMESTER 6
CODE
COURSES
PRE-REQUISITE
MARK 2020
International Marketing
MARK 2049
MARK 2079
Digital Marketing II
MARK 2069
MARK 3017
Strategic Marketing Management
MARK 2063 & MARK 2033
Select Three Business Electives
General Education Electives
Electives
Below are business elective courses for Business Administration Marketing
CODE
BUSINESS ELECTIVES
PRE-REQUISITE
CMMK 1114
Business Research & Report Writing
COMM 1034
CMMK 1120
PR and Corporate Communications
COMM 1034
CMMK 1127
The Business Media in Canada
COMM 1034
CMMK 1156
Talking Business
COMM 1034
ACCT 2031
Managerial Accounting
ACCT 1036
BUS 1044
Business Law
NONE
MARK 2061
Applied Marketing Research
MARK 2007 & STAT 1012
MARK 3029
Case Based Approach to Marketing Strategies
Successful Completion of Semester 3, 3.0 GPA, by interview only
MARK 2053
Negotiation Skills
NONE
MARK 2028
Marketing Financial Services
MARK 1020
MGMT 1034
Retail Marketing
MARK 1020
MARK 2032
Advanced Sales Skills
MARK 1002 & by interview only
MGMT 2037
Retail Management
MARK 1020
MGMT 3013
Shopper Research
MARK 1020
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Develop a marketing plan that will meet the needs or goals of a business or organization.
Develop an integrated marketing communication plan for marketing of a product, concept, good, or service based on an identified market need or target.
Determine strategies for the development of new and/or modified marketing concepts, products, goods, and/or services that respond to evolving market needs.
Determine strategies for the efficient and effective placement/distribution of a product, good, and/or service that respond to an evolving market.
Determine the impact of using different marketing strategies for a product, concept, good and/or service, on the finances, return on investment (ROI), and business goals of an organization.
Analyze the viability of a concept, product, good, and/or service in local, national or global markets.
Conduct market research to provide information needed to make marketing decisions.
Communicate marketing information persuasively and accurately in oral, written, graphic and interactive media formats.
Plan, prepare and deliver an effective sales presentation or pitch to address the needs of the client.
Develop strategies with clients, customers, consumers, co-workers, supervisors, and others to maintain and grow working relationships
Develop learning and development strategies to enhance professional growth in the field.
Apply entrepreneurial strategies to identify and respond to new career opportunities that might include contract employment, and self-employment initiatives.
Apply and contribute to a framework of organizational policies and practices, when conducting business of the organization.
Apply the principles of business ethics and corporate social responsibility to business decisions.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,798.00 * †
International Tuition
$17,925.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
†
This program includes two work experience semesters.
The tuition fee for this program does NOT include the cost of work experience semesters. There is an additional fee of $500 for the each work experience semester.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (C, M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
Math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
COURSE EXEMPTIONS
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY
Proficiency in English communications is necessary for success in this program. Please review our
English proficiency requirements
.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
Business Administration Marketing (B108/158)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the Program Co-ordinator:
Lori Futterer
, Program Co-ordinator
Email:
lfuttere@georgebrown.ca
John Peco
, Chair, School of Marketing
Email:
john.peco@georgebrown.ca
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Marketing
and classes usually take place at our St. James Campus, mainly at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Campus tours are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour.
Social Channels:
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn
Explore related programs:
Marketing Management – Digital Media (Postgraduate) (B433)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.