Business Administration – Supply Chain and Operations Management Program (with work experience) (B162)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Business Administration – Supply Chain and Operations Management
Code:
B162
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters in-class, 2 semesters work experience)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,776.00 * †
International Tuition:
$17,925.00 ** †
Centre:
Business
School:
Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Work experience (co-op or internship) required
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Project Management (Postgraduate) (B415)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
In the
Business Administration – Supply Chain and Operations Management (with work experience)
three-year advanced diploma program, you'll learn how to perform a variety of essential functions, including marketing forecasting, demand management, and production planning. Whether you're interested in logistics, transportation, warehousing, exporting, or planning and forecasting, we'll give you the skills you need to succeed—along with two semesters of real-world work experience to give you a competitive edge.
Full Description
With the
Business Administration – Supply Chain and Operations Management (with work experience)
three-year advanced diploma program, our supply chain and operations management courses will equip you with the expertise to excel not only in business but also in specific supply chain jobs. By the time you graduate, you'll be well-prepared to tackle any challenge that comes your way in this exciting and evolving field.
Graduating from this program can lead to a variety of career options in the supply chain management and logistics sector. You could become a procurement officer, customs analyst, forecasting and demand specialist, logistics analyst, supply chain specialist, or purchasing agent for materials management in various types of organizations, such as government agencies, transportation companies, manufacturers, and more.
Here are some skills you’ll be able to show off after completion of the Business Administration – Supply Chain and Operations Management advanced diploma program:
Evaluating the impact of a company’s supply chain initiatives on its human resources strategies, and policies
Ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, safety requirements, and professional standards
Applying knowledge of logistics, purchasing, distribution, transportation, and warehousing to manage an integrated supply chain
Interpreting financial documents and assessing financial strategies to support the supply chain
This
Centre for Business
program (B162) is part of our
School of Management
and is offered with work experience. Students wishing to apply for
Business Administration – Supply Chain and Operations Management
without
work experience
should apply to
B122
.
See how the supply chain management industry drives Canadian commerce with a variety of exciting and rewarding careers in this video by the Canadian Supply Chain Sector Council.
1
Supply Chain Canada - Who We Are
Earn Your College Credential from a Business School Accredited by ACBSP
Fourteen programs at the Centre for Business have earned international recognition from the
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs
(ACBSP). Advanced diploma and diploma programs at the Schools of Accounting and Finance, Human Resources, Management, and Marketing and the Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Financial Services) program at the School of Accounting and Finance have ACBSP accreditation. George Brown is now one of only two colleges in Ontario to have earned ACBSP accreditation.
Your Field Education Options
Work experience (co-op or internship work term)
This program requires the successful completion of two semesters of work experience to graduate. This work experience is either co-op (paid) or internship (unpaid). Either one will give you the practical experience employers value.
George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the learning outcomes of the program. This valuable work experience can in turn be added to your resumé.
In addition to on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide field education opportunities with real world challenges and clients. Find out more about
field education
at the Centre for Business.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Industry
A number of significant challenges for supply chain professionals have surfaced due to the COVID-19 pandemic and global conflict, including inventory shortages and imbalances resulting from global production and logistics shortfalls. Moreover, as companies attempt to recover in an environment where demand exceeds supply, bottlenecks in the supply chain have directly contributed to economic inflationary pressures, resulting in the highest percentage increases in prices of goods and services in decades. As professionals continue to address both micro and macro disruptions, many are forced to reconsider the viability of their supply chain strategies.
Educational Pathways
The Centre for Business at George Brown College has partnered with
SCMAO
(Supply Chain Management Association Ontario) to allow students of the Business Administration – Supply Chain and Operations Management program a fast track into the CSCMP (Certified Supply Chain Management Professional) Designation program—Canada’s leading designation for supply chain professionals looking to advance their careers.
Learn more
about how you can get a head-start on this program and join a community of 1,500+ CSCMP designation holders across the country who are driving the supply chain ecosystem.
For further information on future study options, see our
Transfer guide.
Courses
Required Courses
In order to graduate from the
B162 program
, you need to complete
38 courses
:
35
mandatory courses and
3
General Education electives and complete
2
Work Experience terms. Work experience can be co-op, internship, simulation, consulting or research projects.
Depending on the results of your placement tests, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. Similarly, you may be required to take MATH 1027 (Business Math with Remediation) before progressing to MATH 1008. COMM 1000 and MATH 1027
do not
count toward the
37
courses required for graduation, and
you will be charged for these extra courses.
Please speak to the Business Office staff if you need any assistance.
General Education Courses (semesters 4, 5 and 6)
: You must complete
three
General Education courses from at least
two
of the following categories: Social Sciences (GSSC), Arts and Humanities (GHUM) or Science and Technology (GSCI).
You are required to make up any failed or dropped courses before you are eligible to graduate.
You can make up these classes during the day, and some are offered in the evening through Continuing Education. Please check with the business office staff to ensure that the Continuing Education courses are equivalent to what is taught in the full-time program. Please note that some courses may not be offered in every semester. Our staff can assist you with any special timetable requirements you may have.
SEMESTER 1
Code
Courses
Pre-requisite
BUS 1038
Business Concepts I
NONE
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
NONE
COMP 1010
Business Computer Applications I
NONE
MARK 1020
Principles of Marketing I
NONE
MARK 1049
Supply Chain Management 1
NONE
MATH 1008
Math for Business & Management I
NONE
SEMESTER 2
Code
Courses
Pre-requisite
ECON 1031
Microeconomics
NONE
BUS 1040
Project Management
NONE
COMM 1034
Professional Communications I
COMM 2000
COMP 1115
Business Computer Applications II
COMP 1010
MATH 1095
Math for Business & Management II
MATH 1008
MGMT 4009
Operations Management
MATH 1008
SEMESTER 3
Code
Courses
Pre-requisite
PSY 1129
Organizational Behaviour
NONE
MGMT 2049
Supply Chain Management II
MGMT 4009 & COMP 1115
STAT 1012
Business Statistics
MATH 1095
ACCT 1036
Principles of Accounting
NONE
BUS 1044
Business Law
NONE
ECON 1032
Macroeconomics
NONE
BUS 1000
Work Experience Prep Course*
COMM 1007 & 3.0 GPA
* This course is mandatory only for students taking the Work Experience Option
(B162)
.
SEMESTER 4
Code
Courses
Pre-requisite
ACCT 2031
Managerial Accounting
ACCT 1036
COMP 2157
Comp. Appl. Involving Analytics
COMP 1115
HRM 1008
Fundamentals of HR Management
NONE
MGMT 2051
Transportation and Warehousing
MGMT 2049
MGMT 3015
Quality Improvement Lean/Six Sigma
NONE
STS 1037
Career Planning & Development
NONE
Select One General Education Elective
SEMESTER 5
Code
Courses
Pre-requisite
MGMT 1035
Global Trade Assessment
MARK 1020
MGMT 1020
Management Decision Making
MGMT 4009 & ACCT 2031
MGMT 3049
Supply Chain Management III
MGMT 2049 & COMP 2157
BUS 1041
Small Business Management
BUS 1038
MGMT 3025
Procurement
MGMT 2049 & BUS 1044
Select One General Education Elective
SEMESTER 6
Code
Courses
Pre-requisite
MGMT 3027
Integrated Supply Chain Management
MGMT 3049
MGMT 1030
Enterprise Resource Panning
MGMT 2049
MGMT 3006
Strategic Analysis
MGMT 1020 & COMM 1034
CMMK 1087
Human Skills
NONE
MGMT 3037
Supply Chain and Technology
MGMT 3049 & MGMT 1020
Select One General Education Elective
General Education Electives
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Examine the connections between strategic objectives, stakeholder expectations, and supply chain functions, processes and roles, to support decision-making, problem-solving and co-ordination of tasks.
Determine the value added and financial implications of supply chain decisions on overall business profitability, efficiency and stakeholder satisfaction.
Ensure supply chain activities and transactions are compliant with relevant legal, regulatory and contractual obligations, and industry and organization standards and policies for quality, health, safety, accountability, social and environmental responsibility.
Use risk-mitigation tools and strategies to inform supply chain management decisions.
Manage the acquisition and sale of goods, services and materials in accordance with best practices and public and private sector stakeholder expectations across a variety of industries.
Plan and schedule material requirements and resource allocation and manage inventories for efficient production and fulfillment of customer orders and returns.
Manage the efficient handling and movement of goods, services, materials and related information within and between supply chains.
Contribute to the identification and management of continuous improvements to functions and processes within and between supply chains.
Use available technologies to enhance work performance and support supply chain functions, processes, transactions and communications.
Monitor relevant trends, emerging technologies, and local and global economic, political and environmental issues to enhance work performance and guide management decisions.
Perform tasks in accordance with policies and procedures for workplace health and safety and industry standards and best practices for professional, ethical and accountable conduct and communications.
Maintain relationships with a diversity of stakeholders to support the achievement of business goals.
Apply strategies for personal, career and professional development.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,776.00 * †
International Tuition
$17,925.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
†
This program includes two work experience semesters.
The tuition fee for this program does NOT include the cost of work experience semesters. There is an additional fee of $500 for each work experience semester.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (C, M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
Math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit
georgebrown.ca/transferguide
for more information.
English Language Proficiency
Proficiency in English communications is necessary for success in this program.
Please visit
georgebrown.ca/englishproficiency
for more details.
International (Visa) Students
Visit the
International Admissions
page for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
Business Administration – Supply Chain and Operations Management (B122/162)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the co-ordinator:
Robert Ruggieri
, Program Co-ordinator
Email:
rruggieri@georgebrown.ca
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Management
and classes usually take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also take our
virtual tour
.
Social Channels:
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn.
Explore related programs:
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Project Management (Postgraduate) (B415)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.