Child and Youth Care Program (Accelerated) (C153)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Child and Youth Care
Code:
C153
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
12 consecutive months
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$3,707.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,838.00 **
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Social & Community Services
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Placement (unpaid)
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Open
Opens Aug 6, 2024
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Child and Youth Care (C133)
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
Social Service Worker (C119)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This Child and Youth Care program has earned national accreditation from the
Child and Youth Care Educational Accreditation Board of Canada
, becoming the first of its kind in the Greater Toronto and Hamilton area and the third in Canada to do so.
Program Overview
The
Child and Youth Care (Accelerated)
program will teach you the skills you need to work effectively with children, youth, and families who are experiencing social, emotional, developmental, and behavioural challenges.
Apply to this accelerated program if you have an existing diploma or degree.
If you apply to the 2024/25 intake for this program, you will start in May 2025. To begin this program in May 2024, apply to the 2023/24 academic year.
Full Description
The
Child and Youth Care (Accelerated) (C153)
advanced diploma program will teach you to support at-risk children, youth and families by developing therapeutic skills and abilities. Over the course of 12 consecutive months (three semesters), you will learn how to build therapeutic relationships with clients and collaborate with a professional team as you develop skill sets to create a professional identity as an agent of change.
This accelerated program stream is a condensed version of the three-year Child and Youth Care (C133) program.
The scope of child and youth care (CYC) practitioners includes the following:
assessing risk and developmental needs of vulnerable children and families
designing and implementing therapeutic intervention
crisis intervention and safety planning with children, youth and their families
developing therapeutic relationships within challenging contexts
applying group and systems theories in physical and social settings
fostering resilience and applying a strength-based approach to assessment and intervention
In preparation for the field or clinical placement in the Child and Youth Care (Accelerated) program, you will be required to work in multiple small and large groups within classes and community settings.
Have questions?
Review our
most frequently asked questions and answers
.
This program starts in May and is delivered over 12 consecutive months (three semesters).
Students will be required to successfully complete a Ministry-approved crisis prevention and intervention training certificate in their third semester.
Your Field Education Options
Child and Youth Care (Accelerated) (C153)
students will get the chance to develop valuable hands-on experience through two supervised field placement opportunities.
The first placement occurs over seven consecutive weeks in the summer semester, and the second placement occurs over four consecutive months in the winter semester. Each placement is four days/week.
Field placement opportunities take place in agencies and institutions that offer services to the community within the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). The CYC program also offers international placement experiences when possible.
Typical placement sites include:
group homes
educational settings
hospitals
youth shelters
schools
after-school programs
community outreach programs
youth justice
Students are expected to work both day and evening shifts (not overnight), and may be requested to work on some weekends.
CYC (Accelerated) (C153)
students are able to apply for
Prior Learning Assessment and Recognition
for one field placement.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Child and Youth Care graduates are eligible for membership in the
Ontario Association of Child and Youth Counsellors (OACYC)
, the professional association representing Child and Youth Care Practitioners in the province of Ontario.
Our graduates find employment in:
treatment centres
group homes
hospitals
youth shelters
schools
after-school programs
community-based treatment programs
youth justice
Educational Pathways
Graduates of the Child and Youth Care (Accelerated) (C153) program may qualify for advanced standing in other programs at George Brown College
. Some examples include (but are not limited to):
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
Behavioural Science Technician (Accelerated) (C156)
Community Worker (Accelerated) (C131)
Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) (C130)
Assaulted Women's and Children's Counsellor/Advocate Program (Accelerated) (C147)
Graduates are also eligible to apply for the
degree completion program
in
Child and Youth Care at:
Toronto Metropolitan University
Humber College
University of Victoria
in British Columbia
Trent University
Graduates may also apply for advanced standing in the
B.A. Health/Community in the School of Public Health and Social Policy
at the University of Victoria, the B.A. Justice Studies, and the B.A. Professional Communication at
Royal Roads University
.
For further information, see the
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 4: May–August
Code
Course Name
CYCS 1048
Therapeutic Activities
CYCS 1049
Counselling Children and Youth
CYCS 1057
Child and Adolescent Development
CYCS 2038
Field Practice I
CYCS 2039
Fieldwork Seminar I
CYCS 2042
Human Sexuality
CYCS 2047
Introduction to Child and Youth Care and Legislation
SEMESTER 5: September–December
Code
Course Name
CYCS 1050
Group Work with Adolescents
CYCS 1055
Equity, Inclusion and Anti-Oppressive Practices
CYCS 2026
Trauma-Informed Approaches
CYCS 3017
Mental Health in Child and Youth Care
CYCS 3020
Community-Based Practices
BST 2003
Crisis Prevention and Intervention
SEMESTER 6: January–April
Code
Course Name
CYCS 2011
Writing for the Profession
CYCS 2035
Fieldwork Seminar II
CYCS 3016
Working with Families
CYCS 3018
Field Practice II
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Develop and maintain therapeutic relationships with children, youth and their families, respecting their unique life spaces, and applying the principles of relational practice to meet their needs.
Assess the strengths, developmental and holistic needs of children, youth and their families, using methods grounded in theoretical frameworks, research and therapeutic practices, to develop care and intervention plans.
Develop and implement care and intervention plans appropriate for the therapeutic milieu using evidence-informed practices and research to provide support for children, youth, and their families.
Use equitable and inclusive approaches that are anti-colonial, anti-oppressive, anti-racist, and strength-based frameworks, as well as cultural humility, to create positive and sustainable solutions and respond to inequities and to systemic barriers experienced by children, youth and their families.
Advocate for, and in solidarity with, children, youth, their families and communities through their participation in the development and implementation of care and intervention plans that uphold their rights.
Employ communication, collaboration and relational skills with the inter-professional team and with community partners to ensure and enhance the professionalism of practice.
Engage in self-inquiry, relational inquiry and critical reflection to develop strategies for learning and the practice of self-care, as a practitioner.
Use professional development resources and supervision to increase professional capacity, learning and leadership skills.
Adhere to relevant legislation and Child and Youth Care standards of practice, competencies, and codes of ethics as a practitioner.
Practice in a variety of contexts and settings, respecting needs for developmental growth, safety, wellbeing and agency, while addressing the varying age and developmental ranges of children, youth, and their families.
Employ crisis prevention and intervention techniques, and harm-reduction principles, with children, youth and their families in the provision of care, to ensure their safety, resolution of crises, and reparation of relationships.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,707.00 *
International Tuition
$17,838.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service, and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Completion of a two-year or three-year diploma, or a three-year or four-year bachelor's degree
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form requirements and program policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 8 to 12 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as TDAP shot, COVID-19, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres, and Two-Step TB Skin Test), proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year
,
Standard First Aid Certificate and CPR level C
renewed every three years and annual flu shot. These requirements must be submitted by the program-specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination
:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations with whom students will engage in the practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees, and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a
Vulnerable Sector Check
completed, and this check must be renewed every six months before entering into the field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Vulnerable Sector Check will not be able to start their field or clinical placement and will therefore be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program. Our agency partners have the final decision for students being allowed to practice in their agency.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website
.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Social & Community Services
Email:
communityservices@georgebrown.ca
Child  and Youth Care (Accelerated) Program Coordinators:
Judy Masters
:
jmasters@georgebrown.ca
Zalina Mohamad:
zalina.mohamad@georgebrown.ca
International Students: Please contact the International Centre by visiting:
https://www.georgebrown.ca/international/contact-international-centre
If you require accommodations, please contact Accessible Learning Services by visiting:
https://www.georgebrown.ca/current-students/services/accessible-learning-services
For more information about George Brown College, please visit the site page
Contact George Brown College | George Brown College
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
We encourage you to sign up for an information session to learn more about this program, meet your professors and have your questions answered.
Check for upcoming information session dates and times
Explore related programs:
Child and Youth Care (C133)
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
Social Service Worker (C119)
"After working at Cedar Heights Residential Living for just a few months, I was hired as a case manager. I work with youth living with brain based development issues who often have more than one diagnosis.
There is never a dull day at work but I feel confident in the field due to my experience at GBC. I had a good base to start from because of the dedication of faculty in making course content relevant and I can apply lessons learnt to my actual work.
Thank you once again for everything!"
Deyana Sameh
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.