Child and Youth Care Program (C133)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Child and Youth Care
Code:
C133
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,803.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,935.00 **
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Social & Community Services
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Marketing Management – Financial Services (Postgraduate) (B406)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This Child and Youth Care program has earned national accreditation from the Child and Youth Care Educational Accreditation Board of Canada, becoming the first of its kind in the Greater Toronto and Hamilton Area and the third in Canada to do so.
Program Overview
The
Child and Youth Care
program prepares you to work effectively with children, youth, and families who are experiencing social, emotional, developmental, and behavioural challenges. The program integrates a holistic approach embedding an ecological perspective and principles of human rights, anti-oppressive practice, resiliency, and restorative practice.
Full Description
Prepare for a career supporting children, youth and their families in a variety of settings, including hospitals, group homes, treatment centres, and more, with the
Child and Youth Care (C133)
advanced diploma program. This three-year program is anchored in the values of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Ontario Association of Child and Youth Care Code of Ethics.
As a student in this program, you will learn to engage purposefully and effectively with children, adolescents and families.
The focus of CYC work is to support those who struggle with emotional, behavioural, and developmental challenges that impair their abilities to relate to others. The specific focus of this program is to recognize the impact of mental health challenges on children and youth and to design programs to support children and youth and their families.
As a student in this program, you will learn to translate theory into practice to move youth from potential risk to resilience.
You’ll gain practical experience with supervised field placements. In preparation for the field or clinical placement, students will be required to work in multiple small and large groups within classes and community settings.
Your Field Education Options
Field placement plays an important role in the Child and Youth Care program.
All placements will be matched in conjunction with the field placement co-ordinator and the CYC faculty. All placements require the completion of the ParaMed documentation (for example, medical and vulnerable sector check).  During the first year, students will learn foundational skills that they will develop as the course progresses. The subsequent academic courses come to life in a wide range of
supervised field placements in the second and third years of the program
.
Second-year students can expect to be in placement two days a week (winter semester), and third-year students can expect to be in placement three days a week over 28 weeks (including both the fall and winter semesters).
NOTE: To proceed to field placement, students are required to pass the prerequisite for placement CYCS 1015 – Field Preparation Seminar.
Students will enrol and are required to pass both Field Placement and Field Seminar courses, which are co-requisites. Second-year placement is a prerequisite for third-year placement. The passing grade for all field-related courses is 60 per cent.
Placements may take place in professional settings such as:
residential care
hospitals
shelters
schools
after-school programs
community outreach programs
day treatment
youth justice
Students are expected to work both day and evening shifts (not overnight) and may be requested to work on some weekends.
Students are able to apply for
Prior Learning Assessment and Recognition
for one field placement.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Child and Youth Care graduates have found employment in:
treatment centres
group homes/residential placements
hospitals
educational settings
community-based treatment programs
shelters
youth justice
Educational Pathways
Graduates of the Child and Youth Care program may qualify for advanced standing in other programs at George Brown College
. Some examples include (but are not limited to):
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
Behavioural Science Technician (Accelerated) (C156)
Community Worker (Accelerated) (C131)
Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) (C130)
A
ssaulted Women's and Children's Counsellor/Advocate Program (AWCCA) (Accelerated) (C147)
Career Development Practitioner (C406)
Child and Youth Care graduates are also eligible to apply for a
degree completion program at the following institutions
:
Child and Youth Care at Toronto Metropolitan University
Child and Youth Care at Humber College
School of Child and Youth Care at University of Victoria
Justice Studies at Royal Roads University
Child and Youth Studies at Trent University
Students are eligible for membership in the
Ontario Association of Child and Youth Care (OACYC)
, the professional association representing Child and Youth Workers in the province of Ontario.
For further information, see the
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
CYCS 1004
Introduction to Child and Youth Care
CYCS 1054
Interpersonal Communication
CYCS 1057
Child & Adolescent Development
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
CYCS 1015
Field Preparation Seminar
CYCS 1022
Therapeutic Activities
CYCS 1055
Equity, Inclusion and Anti-Oppressive Practices
CYCS 1056
Legislation & Social Issues
ISHU 1035
Indigenous Studies
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
CYCS 1049
Counselling Children & Youth
CYCS 2045
Field Practice 1
CYCS 2046
Field Work Seminar 1
CYCS 2031
Writing for the Profession (Online)
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
CYCS 2045
Field Practice 1
CYCS 2046
Field Work Seminar 1
CYCS 2026
Trauma Informed Approaches
CYCS 2040
Human Sexuality
CYCS 2041
Group Work in CYC Practice
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
CYCS 3016
Working With Families
CYCS 3020
Community Based Practices
CYCS 3021
Mental Health I
CYCS 3023
Field Practice II
CYCS 3024
Field Work Seminar II
BST 2003
Crisis Prevention & Intervention
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
CYCS 3022
Mental Health II
CYCS 3025
Critical Issues in CYC
CYCS 3023
Field Practice II
CYCS 3024
Field Work Seminar II
GNED
General Education Elective
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
page for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Develop and maintain therapeutic relationships with children, youth and their families, respecting their unique life spaces, and applying the principles of relational practice to meet their needs.
Assess the strengths, developmental and holistic needs of children, youth and their families, using methods grounded in theoretical frameworks, research and therapeutic practices, to develop care and intervention plans.
Develop and implement care and intervention plans appropriate for the therapeutic milieu using evidence-informed practices and research to provide support for children, youth, and their families.
Use equitable and inclusive approaches that are anti-colonial, anti-oppressive, anti-racist, and strength-based frameworks, as well as cultural humility, to create positive and sustainable solutions and respond to inequities and to systemic barriers experienced by children, youth and their families.
Advocate for, and in solidarity with, children, youth, their families and communities through their participation in the development and implementation of care and intervention plans that uphold their rights.
Employ communication, collaboration and relational skills with the inter-professional team and with community partners to ensure and enhance the professionalism of practice.
Engage in self-inquiry, relational inquiry and critical reflection to develop strategies for learning and the practice of self-care, as a practitioner.
Use professional development resources and supervision to increase professional capacity, learning and leadership skills.
Adhere to relevant legislation and Child and Youth Care standards of practice, competencies, and codes of ethics as a practitioner.
Practice in a variety of contexts and settings, respecting needs for developmental growth, safety, wellbeing and agency, while addressing the varying age and developmental ranges of children, youth, and their families.
Employ crisis prevention and intervention techniques, and harm-reduction principles, with children, youth and their families in the provision of care, to ensure their safety, resolution of crises, and reparation of relationships.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,803.00 *
International Tuition
$17,935.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service, and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U) – minimum grade of 65 per cent required
volunteer experience with children and youth is highly recommended
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form requirements and program policy (for 2
nd
and
3
rd
year returning
students only)
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 8 to 12 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as TDAP shot, COVID-19, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres and Two-Step TB Skin Test), proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year and
Standard First Aid and CPR level C Certificate
renewed every three years. These requirements must be submitted by the program-specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Students who do not fulfill medical pre-requirements are to speak with their program coordinators in advance, in order to find a suitable placement option
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a
Vulnerable Sector Check
completed, and this check must be renewed every six months before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Vulnerable Sector Check will not be able to start their field or clinical placement and will therefore be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program. Our agency partners have the final decision for students being allowed to practice in their agency.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Social & Community Services
Email:
communityservices@georgebrown.ca
Child & Youth Care Program Coordinators
Judy Masters:
jmasters@georgebrown.ca
Zalina Mohamad,
zalina.mohamad@georgebrown.ca
International Students: Please
contact the International Centre
.
If you require accommodations, please contact
Accessible Learning Services
.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Marketing Management – Financial Services (Postgraduate) (B406)
"I always wanted to be an advocate for children and youth. I met a victim services worker who told me about the program at George Brown. Knowing that I wanted to specialize in child abuse prevention and intervention, I felt that the courses in this program would help me set the foundation for my educational path. I also knew that I wanted to continue pursuing higher education and that Ryerson had a direct entry program, which allows George Brown students to apply to go directly into third year. These reasons and the fact that George Brown provided 2 full-year placements made me choose this program at George Brown."
Kirishika Ethayarajan
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.