Civil Engineering Technology Program (T164)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Civil Engineering Technology
Code:
T164
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,978.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,015.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Available in Year 3 through a Divisional Select process
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Construction Engineering Technology (T105)
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T312)
Construction Engineering Technician (T161)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Civil Engineering Technology
three-year advanced diploma program focuses on the planning, design, and construction of roads, bridges, tunnels, subdivisions, buildings, municipal services, and heavy infrastructure. You'll learn how to ensure that projects are functional and economical, while meeting standards and codes. Enjoy learning through a blend of lectures, labs, and tutorials, with a focus on real drawing sets. You'll also have the option to complete a co-op after your fifth semester.
Full Description
As a student in the
Civil Engineering Technology
three-year advanced diploma program, you'll learn about:
Designing reinforced concrete structures, storm, water and sanitary systems, roads, and steel-framed structures.
Interpreting construction drawings and specifications for various types of projects through extensive practical training from project drawing sets.
Estimating, bidding, scheduling, and managing/supervising projects using the latest software.
Health and safety, site management, and quality management on construction sites.
Risk analysis and value analysis for construction projects.
Legal aspects of construction, including types of contracts used in the industry
Using business management techniques to pre-qualify projects based on expected returns, to create and manage a construction company, and to understand its financial statements.
*If you enrol in the program in January, you are required to complete semester 2 in the summer (May to August) of the same year in order to continue into semester 3 in the fall.
Your Field Education Options
Students are encouraged to secure summer employment in the civil and construction sectors. This summer fieldwork reinforces and extends the classroom training.
The Industry Liaison Office helps students connect with industry for field experience opportunities.
Co-op is offered after semester 5 to eligible students. Co-op placement term is 8–12 months. The students selected for co-op go for placement in the winter semester after completing semester 5 and do their semester 6 in the following winter semester when they return from their co-op.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Upon graduating from this program, you'll have developed skills related to the design, construction, and maintenance of civil infrastructure projects (roads, bridges, tunnels, heavy industrial buildings, rail, and transit, storm, sanitary, and water systems).
As a graduate, you'll be prepared for employment in a wide variety of organizations such as government agencies (municipalities, Ministry of Transportation, Metrolinx, Infrastructure Ontario, etc.), contractors, sub-contractors, developers, engineering consulting firms, construction quality-control companies, cement and other construction materials manufacturing facility, aggregate quarries, surveying companies, concrete plants, and asphalt plants. Roles within these firms may include:
structural design assistant
assistant site superintendent
assistant project co-ordinator
project planner/scheduler
estimator
project monitor
quality control technician
project surveyor
municipal inspector
project permits & approvals co-ordinator
construction claims specialist
construction sales specialist
construction safety specialist
quantity surveyor
Industry
Canada's construction industry is essential to the construction and maintenance of residential and commercial buildings, as well as infrastructure projects such as highways, roads, bridges, tunnels, rail and transit, water supply, storm water management, and waste water treatment. With many elements of Canada's infrastructure deteriorating, the federal government has announced plans to increase infrastructure spending in the coming years. This heightened support for new construction and rehabilitation projects will open up new opportunities for graduates in this field.
Educational Pathways
Qualified graduates are eligible to bridge into the Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T317) degree program. For more information, see Diploma to Degree page. Additional future study options are available for individual graduates at various universities.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
CIVL 1010
Introduction to Civil Engineering Technology
CIVL 1011
Surveying 1
CIVL 1012
Civil Engineering Materials
CIVL 1141
Introduction to AutoCad 1
PHY 1025
Introduction to Physics
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH 1156
Mathematics for Civil Engineering Technology 1
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
CIVL 1013
Law for Civil Engineering Technology
CIVL 1014
Introduction to Health and Safety
CIVL 1015
Statics
CIVL 1085
Land Use Planning & Regulations
CIVL 2063
Estimating Civil Projects
MATH 1166
Mathematics for Civil Engineering Technology 2
GNED
General Education Elective (select one)
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
CIVL 2021
Planning & Scheduling for Civil Projects
CIVL 2059
Introduction to AutoCad 2
CIVL 2079
Strengths of Materials
CIVL 2080
Surveying 2
CIVL 2081
Principles and Practices of Construction 1 – Buildings
COMM 1113
Professional Communications for Building Technologies
MATH 2066
Mathematics for Civil Engineering Technology 3
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
CIVL 2082
Introduction to Soil Mechanics
CIVL 2083
Introduction to Fluid Mechanics
CIVL 2084
Professional Workplace Skills
CIVL 2085
Principles and Practices of Construction 2 – Highways, Bridges, and Earthworks
CIVL 2086
Engineering Economics
CIVL 3028
Introduction to GIS Technology
GNED
General Education Elective (select one)
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course name
CIVL 2045
Site Management for Civil Projects
CIVL 3026
Engineering Technical Report
CIVL 3034
Introduction to AutoDesk Civil 3D
CIVL 3086
Structural Design 1 - Steel
CIVL 3087
Introduction to Municipal Engineering Technology
CIVL 3088
Construction Equipment Management
MATH 3066
Introduction to Statistical Inference
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course name
BSCI 3000
Introduction to Building Science
CIVL 3039
Rehabilitation of Civil Infrastructure Projects
CIVL 3089
Introduction to Traffic and Highway Engineering
CIVL 3090
Civil Construction Quality Management
CIVL 3091
Structural Design 2 – Concrete
CIVL 3092
Introduction to Environmental Engineering Technology
GNED
General Education Elective (Select One)
The program is continuously reviewed and adjusted to meet the need of the construction industry and therefore may be subject to change.
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Develop and use strategies to enhance professional growth and ongoing learning in the civil engineering field.
Comply with workplace health and safety practices and procedures in accordance with current legislation and regulations.
Complete duties and monitor that work is performed in compliance with contractual obligations, applicable laws, standards, bylaws, codes and ethical practices in the civil engineering field.
Promote and carry out sustainable practices in accordance with contract documents, industry standards and environmental legislative requirements.
Facilitate collaboration and interaction among the project team and project stakeholders to support civil engineering projects.
Collect, process, analyze and coordinate technical data to produce written and graphical project-related documents.
Use industry-specific electronic and digital technologies to support civil engineering projects.
Participate in the design and modelling phase of civil engineering projects by applying engineering concepts, technical mathematics and principles of science to the review, production and/or modification of project plans.
Contribute to the scheduling, coordination and cost estimation of civil engineering projects and monitor their progression by applying principles of construction project management.
Coordinate and perform quality control testing and evaluate equipment, materials and methods used in the implementation and completion of civil engineering projects.
Apply teamwork, leadership, supervision and interpersonal skills when working individually or within multidisciplinary teams to complete civil engineering projects.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,978.00 *
International Tuition
$18,015.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
Math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Laptop & Internet Specifications
The Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management strongly recommends that students own or purchase a laptop and arrange for home Internet service with 25 to 40 Mbps and a ping time of 20–100 ms.
The laptop specifications should meet or exceed the following specifications:
operating system: Windows 10 Home 64-bit English
processor: 9th Generation Intel® Core™ i7-9750H (12MB Cache, up to 4.5 GHz, 6 cores)
memory (RAM): 16GB (2x8GB  DDR4 2666MHz)
disk space: 256GB M.2 PCIe NVMe Solid State Drive (Boot) + 1TB 5400 rpm 2.5" SATA Hard Drive (Storage)
display card: NVIDIA® GeForce RTX™ 2060 6GB GDDR6
connectivity: 802.11ac WiFi and Bluetooth, 2 x 2
ports: 1x HDMI 2.0;  3x SuperSpeed USB 3.1 Gen 1 Type-A including 1x with PowerShare;  1x 2-in-1 SD / MicroMedia Card slot; 1x Wedge lock slot
screen size: minimum 15.6 inch FHD(1920 x 1080) 300nits IPS Anti-Glare LED backlit display with 144Hz refresh rate
audio: 1 combo headphone / microphone jack
The purchase of a Mac laptop is not recommended because many of the programs do not run on the Mac platform operating system.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4398
Email:
construction_eng@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room E228.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Construction Engineering Technology (T105)
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T312)
Construction Engineering Technician (T161)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.