Cloud Computing Technologies Program (Postgraduate) (T465)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Cloud Computing Technologies
Code:
T465
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 Semesters
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,643.00 * ‡
International Tuition:
$18,615.00 ** ‡
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Computer Technology
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Mandatory Co-op or Work Integrated Project
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The one-year
Cloud Computing Technologies
graduate certificate program will give you a broad, in-depth technical base through courses in system and network administration, cloud productivity tools, and cloud computing design and security. You'll learn by using the leading cloud providers, like Microsoft 365, Microsoft Azure, and Amazon AWS. By the end of this program, you'll be armed with the practical skills and experience you need to succeed as a cloud-computing pro.
Full Description
As the cloud computing sector in the information technology (IT) industry continues to grow globally, our industry partners reveal that there is a growing need for skilled professionals in the field. We're helping to meet this market demand by educating IT pros who understand all aspects of computer systems, from on-premises to cloud computing.
As a student in the
Cloud Computing Technologies
one-year graduate certificate program, you'll gain the cloud computing design, administration, and troubleshooting skills needed to support any business and attract employers from all over the world. Through lab activities and projects, each course will provide you with hands-on experience using technologies in real-world cloud computing scenarios. An optional work-integrated learning field placement is available for those who are not currently employed in IT and are looking to apply these new skills in the field.
Technology Requirements
You'll need to have access to a personal computer with the following specifications:
16GB minimum (32 GB RAM recommended)
512 GB SSD Hard Drive
Quad-core i7 2.4GHz or better
Webcam
Your Field Education Options
In semester 3, students complete a Work Integrated Project, or qualified students are eligible for co-op. Learn more about how to qualify, apply, and important dates for co-op on the
Centre for Arts, Design & Information Technology Experiential Learning
page.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
As a graduate, organizations across many industries will value your skills. Entry-level positions can include:
junior cloud computing engineer
data engineer
data scientist
cloud solutions engineer
cloud security developer
Educational Pathways
Potential educational pathways include:
Computer System Technicians (T141)
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
Computer Programming and Analysis (T177)
Cyber Security (T433)
Wireless networking (T411)
Individuals from industry who are currently working and are looking to advance their career.
Graduates of this program may wish to directly enter the workforce or pursue additional programs and third-party certificates. The program covers different hierarchies of Microsoft and Amazon. Students can decide on hierarchy as their specialty and continue education in their selected field. Opportunity to pursue additional third-party certifications from Amazon and Microsoft are available.
Potential pathways for further education include:
computer science degrees
computer engineering degrees
Courses
Required Courses
PRINTABLE CURRICULUM PLANNER 2024-2025
Semester 1
Course Code
Courses
Prerequisite
CLCT 4000
Desktop Operating Systems
CLCT 4001
Advanced Linux
CLCT 4002
Network Fundamentals
CLCT 4003
Windows Server Infrastructure Services
CLCT 4004
Microsoft 365 Identity and Services I: Enterprise Administration
CLCT 4005
Microsoft 365 Identity and Services II: Enterprise Mobility and Security
CLCT 4004
Semester 2
Course Code
Courses
Prerequisite
CLCT 4006
Microsoft Azure I: Azure Administrator
CLCT 4007
Microsoft Azure II: Azure Architect
CLCT 4006
CLCT 4008
Microsoft Azure Security
CLCT 4007
CLCT 4009
AWS I: Cloud Practitioner
CLCT 4010
AWS II: Solutions Architect
CLCT 4009
CLCT 4011
AWS Security
CLCT 4010
COMP 4064
Career Planning and Portfolio Development
Semester 3
Course Code
Course
CLCT 4020
Work-Integrated Project
or
TCOP 4011
Co-op
Program Learning Outcomes
Create secure solutions that support highly available micro-services that meet client needs.
Implement enterprise level applications in hosted cloud environments that respond to client needs and business practices.
Architect and deploy fault tolerant solutions within cloud computing platforms to solve identified business requirements.
Automate security and resources for applications by using cloud computing tools to mitigate risk for organizations and protect assets.
Design and test code-based solutions to cloud computing problems that ensure security in depth.
Assess the viability of developing, deploying, maintaining and securing cloud computing solutions using a variety of resiliency testing tools.
Create and defend cloud-computing strategies used to solve identified business needs on behalf of a client.
Install and monitor a database management system on the cloud in response to specified requirements.
Design, develop, configure, troubleshoot, maintain, and upgrade computing systems and network infrastructures for the cloud.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,643.00 * ‡
International Tuition
$18,615.00 ** ‡
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of the program starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
‡ Semester 3 fees will consist of a flat fee of $500 for co-op placement or for the work-integrated project. These fees are to be paid separately and are not included in the total above.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor's degree or Advanced Diploma (3-year) in mathematics, business, computer science, economics, engineering, or science.
Proof of English language proficiency required where International transcripts are submitted.*
*Please note that domestic applicants who are submitting international transcripts require a Canadian equivalency evaluation. This can be obtained through ICAS (International Credential Assessment Service) at
icascanada.ca
or WES (World Education Services) at
wes.org/ca.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the College level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
COURSE EXEMPTIONS
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Computer Technology
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4287
Email:
computertechnology@georgebrown.ca
The office hours are:
Monday - Friday : 9am - 4pm
Program Co-ordinator: Ali Ziyaei
Ali.Ziyaei@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Visit Our Campus
The Cloud Computing Technologies program is offered through our
School of Computer Technology
from our
Casa Loma Campus
at
146 Kendal Avenue
, Toronto. Sign up for an
information session
or
campus tour
to learn more about George Brown College and the program. You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.