College Vocational Program (A101)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
College Vocational
Code:
A101
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,668.00 *
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Work & College Preparation
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Not Available
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Social Service Worker (C119)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
The College Vocational (A101) program is unique in Ontario.
Program Overview
The
College Vocational
one-year certificate program is for students who identify mild intellectual disability or neurodiversity as a barrier to being successful in the workplace. Our inclusive program will help you develop your skills in the areas of communication, teamwork, self-awareness, self-advocacy, and give you the confidence to achieve your goals.
This program is suitable for those who have graduated from high school with an Ontario Secondary School Certificate (OSSC) or Diploma (OSSD) and workplace credits.
Full Description
If you're neurodivergent or have a mild intellectual disability, and you're eager to enter the workforce, our
College Vocational
one-year certificate program is crafted just for you. We'll help you develop a variety of job-readiness skills and provide you with tailored support, giving you the confidence you need to secure meaningful employment.
In collaboration with community partner
Pathway to Possibilities (PTP) Adult Learning & Employment Programs
, you'll take part in employment-related workshops and get individualized help navigating your job search. Plus, you'll gain valuable workplace experience, which can open the doors to paid employment upon graduation. PTP also offers ongoing support after you've completed the program.
NOTE:
This program is intended for high school graduates with an Ontario Secondary School Certificate (OSSC) or Diploma (OSSD) who have workplace or college credits.
Here's what you can expect:
support with resumé and cover letter writing, interview skills, networking, and more
two-semester program starts in September
in-person delivery
PTP Adult Learning & Employment counsellors and job developers to support you with work placement and job search, both during the program and after graduation
Course content includes:
self-exploration and career planning
communication and math skills training
digital skills training
intrapersonal and interpersonal skills enhancement
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Upon completion of the College Vocational (A101) program at George Brown, graduates can:
take specialized job training programs
enrol in additional college programs
continue to work with PTP employment counsellors and job developers to find meaningful paid employment
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
LIFE 1015
Personal and Professional Dynamics I
COMM 1158
Communications and Mathematics Skills and Strategies I
PREP 1016
Transitions to Work
PREP 1020
Digital Skills for Life and Work I
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
LIFE 1016
Personal and Professional Dynamics II
COMM 1159
Communications and Mathematics Skills and Strategies II
PREP 1029
Pathways to Work
PREP 1030
Digital Skills for Life and Work II
PREP 1035
Work-Integrated Learning Practicum
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate will have reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Apply key information processing skills to employment and academic contexts.
Apply workplace conventions and practices (policies and procedures, rules, regulations, health and safety laws/guidelines, ethical principles, etc.).
Produce a career pathway plan with associated artifacts.
Use essential literacies, such as communication, numeracy, digital, media, to carry out tasks and responsibilities.
Manage personal and professional growth in employment and academic contexts.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,668.00 *
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Eligible candidates are required to have one of the following:
OSSD or
Ontario Secondary School Certificate or
mature student status (19 years of age or older)
How to Apply and Qualify
Submit an application through the Ontario College Application Service (OCAS) at
ontariocolleges.ca.
Qualified applicants are required to attend a mandatory online intake assessment and interview.
Please note:
For information session dates, contact the program co-ordinator in mid-January at:
cv@georgebrown.ca
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Call the College Vocational program co-ordinator at 416-415-5000, ext. 2503, or email at
jdewar@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Visit Our Campus
Book a general
campus tour
to see the common areas of the campus (i.e., cafeteria, student services, the gym, etc.) or explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Social Service Worker (C119)
Read this story to learn about the
success that Joey Gamulin had in this program
and how it led to him becoming the 2022 Centre for Preparatory and Liberal Studies Dean’s Medal award-winner.
Joey Gamulin
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.