Community Worker Program (C101)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Community Worker
Code:
C101
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,773.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,905.00 **
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Social & Community Services
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Placement
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Social Service Worker (C119)
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
Child and Youth Care (C133)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing students to work with individuals and communities toward progressive social change for nearly 50 years.
The Community Worker program is one of the few programs of its kind in Canada.
Program Overview
The
Community Worker
program prepares students to work for progressive social change with organizations, communities and individuals across a range of issues such as poverty, housing, legal rights, discrimination, food justice, immigration and refugee settlement.
Full Description
If you are passionate about human rights and social justice, the two-year
Community Worker (C101)
diploma program is for you. Students gain the knowledge and skills required to work with diverse and historically marginalized individuals and communities on a range of concerns.
Whether you’re a mature student or high school graduate, a newcomer or looking for a career change, our diverse and committed student body is a core strength of our program.
This is an approved education program by the
Ontario College of Social Workers and Social Service Workers (OCSWSSW)
. Graduates of this program may apply to receive the additional designation of RSSW (Registered Social Service Worker). Extra fees may apply.
Community Worker Program Features:
The School of Social and Community Services has partnerships with more than 350 agencies across the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) and beyond.
Graduates of Anishnawbe Health Toronto’s (AHT) Community Health Worker Training program can gain direct entry into the second year of the Community Worker program.
The
Tommy Douglas Institute
, founded by the Community Worker program faculty, is an annual event and home to the
Courage My Friends
podcast. Episodes are hosted on rabble.ca and explore community, education, and social justice issues in the 21st century.
The Role of a Community Worker
Emerging from a proud history of community-based organizing, advocacy, and activism, community workers work with individuals and communities at all levels (local, national, natural, and global) toward positive social change.
Community workers are committed to the full and equal inclusion of all peoples within societies that value equality, diversity, and human dignity. The pursuit of social justice is about rights and not charity; working in solidarity with communities, not for them.
Key Skills Taught in the Community Worker Program
Throughout the program, students will have the opportunity to develop a variety of important and high-demand skills, including:
anti-oppressive and intercultural practices in working with diverse populations
critical analysis, research, and writing
group facilitation, counselling, and leadership development
community organizing, activism, and advocacy
community development, project design, and proposal writing
policy analysis and rights-based advocacy
Community Worker Program Structure
The program combines classroom instruction and supervised field placements. In preparation for field placement, students will be required to work in multiple small and large groups within classes and community settings.
Theory, analysis, and practice are presented through a variety of innovative instructional tools developed from popular education and learner-centred approaches to teaching and learning.
Highly engaged classes of dialogue, debate, interactive lectures, guest panels, and group activities provide students with a current, exciting, and critically engaging program of study.
Program Courses Are Organized into Four Core Areas:
community work theory and practice
social and political analysis
group skills and counselling
field placement and seminar
Community Worker Faculty
Faculty are experienced educators who bring their passion for education and change to create a highly engaging and dynamic learning environment. The faculty have local, national, and global activism backgrounds, and they remain active on social issues and maintain close ties to communities, activists, and organizations.
Accelerated program
Graduates of a diploma or degree program may be eligible for the
Community Worker (Accelerated) (C131) program
.
Your Field Education Options
Students will develop relationships with our community partners through field placements and in their classrooms through networking events and guest panels. Program option courses are often taught by practitioners currently working in the field (e.g., Community Legal Issues, Urban Aboriginal Peoples: Perspectives in Community Development, etc.).
Types of Community Worker Field Placements
Students will have the opportunity to develop practical skills and gain valuable professional experience by completing field placements in semesters 2, 3 and 4.
Through our strong ties to community partners and advocacy organizations, students can find placements suited to their specific interests and on a wide range of issues such as poverty, settlement services, housing, food justice, education, HIV/AIDS, Indigenous services, arts-based agencies and anti-violence. The Community Worker program is the recipient of the South Africa Most Transformative Program Award for 2022/2023 from EDU Africa Virtual Internship.
Note
:
In compliance with the requirements of our field partners, all students in this program are encouraged to complete a vulnerable sector check before commencing their field placement. These reference checks, which can take up to four months, are done to protect the clientele of these agencies who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law. The fees for the reference checks vary by region and must be paid by the student. Students are responsible for ensuring that the check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
The program will assist students in applying for the vulnerable sector check once they begin the program.
Students without a clear vulnerable sector check may find that their choice of placement is limited. Students in this situation are encouraged to work with the field education co-ordinator to identify placement opportunities that do not require the vulnerable sector check. Students are also encouraged to inquire and apply for Suppression and Destruction of Record or Record Suspension (formerly known Pardon) at their specific regional police services, in order to prepare for their future career or employment. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website
.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Community Worker Graduates
George Brown's Community Worker program is an approved education program by the
Ontario College of Social Workers and Social Service Workers (OCSWSSW)
. Graduates of this program may apply to receive the additional designation of RSSW (Registered Social Service Worker). Extra fees may apply.
The Community Worker program is proud to continue a long tradition of graduating Community Workers into a range of professions such as:
shelter supervisors
international development workers
immigration and refugee settlement, and community development
health and community advocacy in food justice, Indigenous rights and climate justice
Educational Pathways
Community Worker graduates may apply for advanced entry into other programs in the School of Social and Community Services and the School of Early Childhood. Graduates are eligible to apply for the
Child and Youth Care (Accelerated) (C153) program
, the
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135) program
, the
Assaulted Women and Children's Counselor Advocate (Accelerated) (C147) program
, and the
Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) (C130) program
.
Graduates who successfully complete this program with a high academic standing may qualify for pathways to the following programs:
Community Development
B.A. and
Community Economic & Social Development
B.A. at Algoma University
Community Development
B.A. at Humber College
Policing & Community Well-Being (B.A)
at Trent University
Professional Communications
B.A. and
Justice Studies
B.A. at Royal Roads University
Students may also explore options to apply to programs at
Toronto Metropolitan University
and
York University
For further information, see
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
CWRK 1001
Introduction to Community Work
CWRK 1005
Human Rights in Community Work Practice
CWRK 1008
Interpersonal Communication
CWRK 1020
Sociology: Understanding Power and Anti-Oppression
ISHU 1035
Indigenous Studies
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
CWRK 1048
Climate Justice
CWRK 1050
Fieldwork Seminar I
CWRK 1051
Fieldwork I
CWRK 2014
Community and Campaign Organizing
CWRK 1030
Canadian Politics: A Critical Approach
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
COUN 2003
Counselling
CWRK 2043
Community Development: Programs and Funding
CWRK 2019
Canadian Social Policy
CWRK 2039
Fieldwork Seminar II
CWRK 2038
Fieldwork II
Semester 3 Program Specialization Course
Code
Course Name
CWRK 2004
Community Legal Issues
CWRK 2035
Immigration and Settlement: Working with Immigrant and Refugee Populations
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
CWRK 2032
Global Politics
CWRK 2039
Fieldwork Seminar II
CWRK 2038
Fieldwork II
CWRK 2044
Critical Digital Community Work
CWRK 2016
Group Facilitation
Semester 4 Program Specialization Course
Code
Course Name
CWRK 2026
Housing & Homelessness
CWRK 2033
Food Justice
CWRK 2045
Social Determinants of Health: Community Approaches to Health, Mental Health and Addictions
Program specializations may change based on program development and community trends. Examples include: Urban Aboriginal Issues, Restorative Justice, International Development, Community Legal Issues, Housing and Homelessness, Food Justice, Immigration Refugee Settlement.
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Establish constructive relationships with individuals concerned with community work.
Describe their personal values and motivation as a community worker.
Serve in a variety of grassroots community organizations especially in the areas of co-operatives, seniors and community legal services.
Be comfortable in community work roles ranging from direct service to classical advocacy and organizing.
Understand and articulate the special needs of multicultural groups.
Analyze social inequalities and demonstrate creativity in the organization of new services and institutions to meet community needs.
Work with groups to identify their own needs.
Access existing services and community resources.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,773.00 *
International Tuition
$17,905.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service, and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
NOTE:
Attending an information session is highly recommended.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy
In compliance with the requirements of our field partners, all students in this program are encouraged to complete a Vulnerable Sector Check before commencing their field placement. These reference checks, which can take up to four months, are done to protect the clientele of these agencies who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary by region and must be paid by the student. Students are responsible for ensuring that the check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).” The program will assist students in applying for VSC once they begin the program. Students without a clear vulnerable sector check record may find that their choice of placement is limited. Students in this situation are encouraged to work with the field education co-ordinator to identify placement opportunities that do not require the vulnerable sector check. Students are also encouraged to inquire and apply for Suppression and Destruction of Record or Record Suspension (formerly known as Pardon) at their specific regional police services, in order to prepare for their future career or employment. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement Office website
.
Our field placement partners may require students to show proof of vaccination. It is your responsibility to ensure all pre-placement requirements are met.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Social & Community Services
Email:
communityservices@georgebrown.ca
Community Worker Program Coordinator:
Farhia Abdi
Email:
fabdi7@georgebrown.ca
International Students: Please contact the
International Centre
.
If you require accommodations, please contact
Accessible Learning Services
.
For more information, visit
Contact George Brown College
.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Social Service Worker (C119)
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
Child and Youth Care (C133)
Watch what this current student in the Community Worker program had to say about her recent online learning experience.
Gigi Chiamoh, Community Worker (C101) Student
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.