Computer Systems Technology Program (Online) (T187)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Computer Systems Technology
Code:
T187
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,115.00 *
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Computer Technology
Location:
Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Not Available
Winter
2025
Open
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
Computer Programming and Analysis (T177)
Computer Systems Technician (T141)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Our Cisco Networking Academy has won the Premier Partner status for two years in a row for our contributions to the success of students and instructors. We support over 35 other Cisco Networking Academies in North America and are one of only a few academies that have an Instructor Trainer status.
Program Overview
The
Computer Systems Technology (Online)
three-year advanced diploma program will give you what you need to meet the high demand for skilled employees in the tech industry. Designed with extensive input from our industry partners, this program offers two optional specializations in your third year of study. Plus, you'll get to work on exciting, hands-on projects developing IT solutions.
This program is
fully online
, including lectures, exams, and class projects. This allows you to:
Study online from the comfort of home while joining other students across Canada in live, instructor-led classes.
Access the knowledge and expertise of faculty members who are embedded in Toronto’s rapidly growing tech industry.
Develop professional skills in a format convenient to you and your busy weekday commitments.
PLEASE NOTE:
This is an online-only program, open to domestic students. Regular in-person delivery and International eligibility is available through our
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
program.
Full Description
The three-year
Computer Systems Technology (Online)
advanced diploma program is designed with extensive industry input and offers two optional specializations in its third year:
The Networking specialization
focuses on network security, voice-over-IP (VoIP), and wireless LANs.
The Systems specialization
focuses on mail server administration, content management systems (Collaboration), database administration, and computer security.
Both specializations include core courses on infrastructure virtualization (through the VMWare IT Academy) and cloud computing, along with best practices in Information Technology (IT).
In your third year, you'll also be involved in real-life projects or case studies. You can complete these independently, along with an industry partner or George Brown's Office of Research and Innovation. This hands-on experience may include working in teams to develop proposals, plan, set schedules, and achieve specific goals in information technology. Through some of these exciting projects, our students have helped develop IT solutions for hospitals, large corporations, and major IT and telecommunications service providers, including Bell Mobility, Rogers Communications, Cogeco Data Systems, and many other well-known companies in the GTA.
This program covers all courses of the official Cisco CCNA Routing & Switching curriculum. The curriculum also prepares students to write several other examinations leading to industry certifications, such as the Certified Wireless Network Administrator (CWNA) and Cisco Certified CyberOps Associate.
Our college continues to invest in up-to-date networking, wireless, radio frequency, VoIP, and security lab equipment, so that all students gain hands-on experience in installation and configuration of equipment ranging from small offices all the way to enterprise-class hardware and software. Cisco recognized this investment, along with the hands-on teaching environment, and designated George Brown as an Area Support Centre and Instructor Training Centre, making us part of a very select group of Cisco Networking Academies in Canada.
Note:
Students who start the program in January (winter term) will be required to attend classes during the summer months (May to August).
Technology Requirements
You'll need to have access to a personal computer with the following specifications:
16 GB RAM minimum
256 GB SSD Hard Drive (500+ GB is optimal)
Quad-core i7 2.4GHz or better
Video card (2GB RAM minimum/4GB RAM recommended)
Webcam
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
This program prepares graduates for jobs in a wide variety of positions, including:
technical support
web developer
field technician (wireless/cellular service providers)
training service provider
system and network administrator
cybersecurity analyst
systems manager
Opportunities also exist in companies that provide computer support services to other businesses, and in organizations that specialize in the sale and installation of computer systems and networks.
Graduates may also find employment working directly with business clients, providing training services and ongoing support to assist them in using computer applications effectively. Graduates will be prepared to write several of the examinations leading to industry certification in Network Administration and Support.
Educational Pathways
Opportunities to receive transfer credits toward further study to attain a degree are available.
Students who successfully complete this program may qualify for entry into Ontario college graduate certificate and university degree programs. George Brown currently has articulation agreements with various other post-secondary institutions such as the University of Ontario Institute of Technology, McMaster University and the Northern Alberta Institute of Technology. For further information on future study options, see
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
PRINTABLE CURRICULUM PLANNER 2024-2025
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
COMP 1151
IT Essentials
COMP 1236
Fundamentals of Computing Logic
COMP 1234
Introduction To Web Development
GSSC 1027
Personal Finance
MATH 1162
Mathematics for Computer Technology I
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
COMP 1176
Introduction to Networks
COMP 3044
Linux Essentials
COMP 1250
Introduction to Programming
COMP 3105
Enterprise Desktop Operation Systems
MATH 1172
Mathematics for Computer Technology II
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
COMP 3136
Network Infrastructure
COMP 2064
Identity Management Services
COMP 2155
Network Automation
COMP 2148
Professional Workplace Competencies
COMP 3066
Linux System Administration
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
COMP 3138
Enterprise Networking and Automation
COMP 2102
Wireless Technology Fundamentals
COMP 2141
Windows Server Network Infrastructure
COMP 2156
DevOps For System Administration
COMP 3061
Cyber Security Fundamentals
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
PROGRAM SPECIALIZATION
CHOOSE ONE SET OF COURSES
Students are to pick a specialization in semester five and will be registered in the corresponding courses. Please note that once your specialization is picked in semester five, you will not be able to change in semester six.
NETWORKING SPECIALIZATION
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course name
COMP 3076
Network Infrastructure Security
COMP 3049
WLAN Administration
COMP 3098
Enterprise Network and System Design
COMP 3093
Infrastructure Virtualization
COMP 3112
IP Telephony and Streaming Services
COMP 3115
Information Systems Project Management
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course name
COMP 3094
ITIL Foundation
COMP 3107
Enterprise Network Management
COMP 3108
Cloud Computing Infrastructure
COMP 3099
Capstone Project
COMP 3111
Broadband and Data Communications
SYSTEMS SPECIALIZATION
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course name
COMP 3102
Mail Server Administration
COMP 3103
Power Shell Scripting
COMP 3114
Database Administration
COMP 3115
Information Systems Project Management
COMP 3098
Enterprise Network and System Design
COMP 3093
Infrastructure Virtualization
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course name
COMP 3094
ITIL Foundation
COMP 3108
Cloud Computing Infrastructure
COMP 3099
Capstone Project
COMP 3125
Cybersecurity Operations
COMP 3121
System Data Collaboration
Alternative Study Options:
In-person delivery of this program is available; please see
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed Course Outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Identify, analyze, design, develop, implement, verify and document the requirements for a computing environment.
Diagnose, troubleshoot, document and monitor technical problems using appropriate methodologies and tools.
Analyze, design, implement and maintain secure computing environments.
Analyze, develop and maintain robust computing system solutions through validation testing and industry best practices.
Communicate and collaborate with team members and stakeholders to ensure effective working relationship.
Select and apply strategies for personal and professional development to enhance work performance.
Apply project management principles and tools when responding to requirements and monitoring projects within a computing environment.
Adhere to ethical, social media, legal, regulatory and economic requirements and/or principles in the development and management of the computing solutions and systems.
Investigate emerging trends to respond to technical challenges.
Analyze, plan, design, implement and administer computer systems and cloud solutions.
Research, design, deploy, configure, troubleshoot, maintain, upgrade and decommission computing system infrastructures.
Select and apply scripting tools and programming languages to automate routine tasks.
Install, monitor, optimize and administer a database management system in response to specified requirements.
Design, implement and administer technical support processes for computing system infrastructures that aligns with industry best practice.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,115.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
Math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
School of Computer Technology
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4287
Email:
computertechnology@georgebrown.ca
The office hours are:
Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Program Co-ordinator: Jorge Olenewa
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 6809
Email:
jolenewa@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Visit Our Campus
The Computer Systems Technology program is offered through our
School of Computer Technology
from our
Casa Loma Campus
at
146 Kendal Avenue
, Toronto. Sign up for an
information session
or
campus tour
to learn more about George Brown College and the program. You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
Computer Programming and Analysis (T177)
Computer Systems Technician (T141)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.