Concept Art for Entertainment Program (Postgraduate) (G407)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Concept Art for Entertainment
Code:
G407
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$11,781.00 *
International Tuition:
$30,245.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Design
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Graphic Design (G102)
Art and Design Foundation (G108)
Design Management (Postgraduate) (G401)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Concept art is critical in conceptualizing and driving the production process of video games and film. In this rigorous one-year
Concept Art for Entertainment
graduate certificate program, you'll expand your techniques and creativity, transforming your written ideas into visual experiences.
Full Description
The
Concept Art for Entertainment
one-year graduate certificate program will train you to meet the industry demand for entertainment-focused concept artists and fine artists. We've designed this program to provide specialized skills for graduates of our
Game - Art
,
Interaction Design
and
Graphic Design
programs. A core part of the intensive curriculum is the development of artistic and direction techniques you'll need to succeed in the industry, including concept art production and visual conceptualization.
Using stories, character profiles, and design documentation, you'll learn production processes, art styles, and drawing techniques. During the program, you'll assemble a personal portfolio, while designing and directing art production for games and film. Getting this experience will prepare you for entering the workforce or starting your own business.
Your Field Education Options
Students with approved portfolios are eligible for non-mandatory external field placements in semester 3.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Concept artists can enjoy careers in many fields like film, television, interactive storytelling, gaming, and animation. Potential job titles include:
concept designer
environment designer
storyboard artist
illustrator
2D artist
world builder
Industry
Concept art is an intense field that is highly competitive yet exceptionally rewarding. As the television and film industries shift in response to changing trends such as online access to traditionally aired content, the industry supplements its series and films with online and interactive content, which allows more opportunities and exposure.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
CART 1001
Visual Style and Presentation I
CART 1002
Digital Painting I
CART 1003
Surfaces and Materials I
CART 1004
Character Design I
CART 1005
Environment Design I
CART 1006
Production Process I
CART 1007
Production Project I
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
CART 1011
Visual Style and Presentation II
CART 1001
CART 1012
Digital Painting II
CART 1002
CART 1013
Surfaces and Materials II
CART 1003
CART 1014
Character Design II
CART 1004
CART 1015
Environment Design II
CART 1005
CART 1016
Production Process II
CART 1006
CART 1017
Production Project II
CART 1007
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
CART 2010
Studio Entrepreneurship
CART 2020
Experiential Thesis
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Propose artistic solutions to abstract design challenges according to project requirements and constraints.
Produce conceptualized art in a format that meets the needs of identified audiences and clients.
Select appropriate tools and software for the creation of conceptualized artwork.
Produce a portfolio showcasing a combination of diverse artistic styles that reflect conceptualized art standards.
Plan and create conceptualized artwork for digital media.
Apply effective entrepreneurial and business practices and project management skills to the profession of independent and/or company conceptual artist.
Contribute to and lead multidisciplinary project teams to complete complex projects.
Select appropriate marketable concept art for public release.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$11,781.00 *
International Tuition
$30,245.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials (non-refundable), student service and ancillary fees for the
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International students:
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs
page for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor of Fine Arts; or diploma/advanced diploma in game, graphics or arts field
online interview*
resumé*
portfolio*
(digital portfolio accepted)
applicant questionnaire*
*Qualified applicants will be invited to complete the application questionnaire and submit a portfolio and resumé electronically. Details on these supplementary requirements will be communicated at a later date to qualified applicants, as part of the review process. Qualified applicants may also be invited for an interview.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Design
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 3129
Email:
game@georgebrown.ca
Game Development Program Co-ordinator: Jean-Paul Amore, ext. 3427 or
jamore@georgebrown.ca
.
The
School of Design
is located at both 230 Richmond St. E. and 341 King St. E., Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5A 1L1.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is part of our
School of Design
, located at our
Waterfront Campus
, at
3 Lower Jarvis St.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
School of Design Building
The School of Design resides in a new 103,000-square-foot facility in the Daniels Waterfront – City of the Arts development. This state-of-the-art building supports academic programs and industry projects with features such as:
virtual and augmented reality lab
usability and testing lab
Future Ways of Living lab
peer tutor lab
digital sandbox
incubators
prototyping and workshop spaces
design and innovation showcase spaces
Come and have your questions answered, learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom at one of our
information sessions
. You can also
book a campus tour
.
Explore related programs:
Graphic Design (G102)
Art and Design Foundation (G108)
Design Management (Postgraduate) (G401)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.