Construction Craft Worker Foundations Program (A106)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Construction Craft Worker Foundations
Code:
A106
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
18 weeks
Starting Months:
April
Domestic Tuition:
This program is free for participants.
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Work & College Preparation
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Program includes classroom and construction lab instruction, 160 hours of work placement and workshops.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Opening Soon
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Construction Techniques (T176)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Carpentry and Renovation Technician (T180)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This program was developed in collaboration with the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH) and is unique in Canada.
Program Overview
Construction Craft Worker (A106)
is a free, 18-week supported education program for students who identify mental health and/or addictions challenges as a barrier to education and employment. In a hands-on, small group setting, with experiential work opportunities and job-coaching support, you'll develop the skills you need for entry-level work in Toronto's construction industry.
This program was developed in collaboration with the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH) and is unique in Canada.
Full Description
George Brown College’s Construction Craft Worker (A106)
program is one of two innovative
Augmented Education
employment-focused programs designed to help those with mental health and/or addiction challenges overcome common employment barriers.
Developed in collaboration with the
Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH)
, this free 18-week program provides training to help you gain employment in Toronto's construction industry. If you see work as part of your recovery process and want to take the first step toward a new role in an exciting industry, then this program is for you. Upon completion of this program, you'll be the proud recipient of an
Ontario College Certificate
.
Construction Craft Worker Program Overview:
unique in Canada
18 weeks long
starts in April
full-time delivery
includes classroom and construction lab instruction
class and construction lab time approximately 30 to 35 hours per week
160 hours of work placement and workshops
graduate with an Ontario College Certificate
tutoring and support available from program coaches
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Construction Craft Worker (A106) graduates will be qualified for entry-level construction industry jobs such as:
construction labourer
carpentry helper
masonry helper
cement-finishing helper
demolition worker
Graduates will also be qualified to work in many other areas in the building trades, including the potential to work in the retail area of the construction sector.
Courses
Required Courses
Code
Course name
BLDG 1058
Plans, Specifications and Calculations
BLDG 1059
Construction Site Safety, Tools and Equipment
BLDG 1060
Concrete Work, Scaffolding and Hoisting
BLDG 1061
Construction Site Works
BLDG 1062
Industry Practicum
COUN 1033
Field Integration
FAID 1003
Standard First Aid
MATH 1100
Foundation Math for Building Technologies
MATH 1109
Mathematics for Building Technologies
WELD 1005
Metal Cutting
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Select, use and operate safely the tools and equipment used by construction craft workers and carpenters, masons, bricklayers and other construction-related trades.
Select and apply appropriate material types for use in new residential/commercial construction and renovation.
Interpret and apply relevant information in the Ontario Building Code and Occupational Health and Safety Act regulations for Construction Projects (CSAO) as they relate to construction craft worker duties and the construction industry in general.
Identify unsafe conditions and take appropriate action on a job site.
Interpret and visualize a finished project from an orthographical projected drawing.
Apply construction processes to residential/commercial construction and common types of renovations.
Solve construction-related problems using appropriate techniques in a variety of construction situations.
Select, use and operate appropriate welding equipment (and gas) in order to exhibit proper metal-cutting techniques and procedures.
Apply basic emergency scene management and administer basic first aid needs on job work site.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
This program is free for participants.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent
mental health and/or addictions history
mature student status (19 years of age or older)
Intake process involves all of the following:
application completion
academic assessment
skills assessment
interview
Course Exemptions
Due to the nature of this employment-focused program, it is only offered in block format and, as such, cannot accommodate course exemptions.
Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
How to Apply
Download the application package
or call the Augmented Education office at 416-415-5000, ext. 6790 or email a request to
auged@georgebrown.ca
.
Pour des services en français, veuillez communiquer avec nous au 416-415-5000, poste 3111 ou par courriel à
frenchserviceinfo@georgebrown.ca.
Contact Us
For more information or to receive an application package, contact the Augmented Education program office at 416-415-5000, ext. 6790, or send an email request to
auged@georgebrown.ca
.
Pour des services en français, veuillez communiquer avec nous au 416-415-5000, poste 3111 ou par courriel à
frenchserviceinfo@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Visit Our Campus
Thinking about attending George Brown? The Construction Craft Worker Foundations program is taught mainly at our Casa Loma Campus at 160 Kendal Ave., Toronto, Ontario.
Information sessions
for the Construction Craft Worker Foundations program are held regularly.
Sign up!
Book an online
campus tour
to see the common areas of the campus (i.e., cafeteria, student services, the gym, etc.). Choose "Work and College Preparation" as your area of interest.
You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Construction Techniques (T176)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Carpentry and Renovation Technician (T180)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.