Continuing Education ESL Pathway to George Brown College Certificates and Diplomas Program (R903)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Continuing Education ESL Pathway to George Brown College Certificates and Diplomas
Code:
R903
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Part-time
Duration:
Must complete the program within three consecutive academic years.
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
Please see the Courses tab for fee details
International Tuition:
Please see the Courses tab for fee details
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
English as a Second Language ESL
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2025
Opening Soon
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Spring
2025
Opening Soon
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Continuing Education ESL Pathway to George Brown College Certificates and Diplomas
will help you meet the minimum English Language admissions requirement for any of George Brown's full-time Ontario College Certificate, Diploma, or Postgraduate Certificate programs. This pathway is available within George Brown College only and does not apply to programs with a co-op component.
Full Description
The Continuing Education ESL Pathway to George Brown College Certificates and Diplomas program
will help you transition your studies from a part-time continuing education program into one of our exciting full-time programs.
After successfully completing this pathway program, you'll have met the minimum English Language admissions requirement for any of George Brown's full-time Ontario College Certificate, Diploma or Postgraduate Certificate programs.
Continuing Education ESL Pathway to George Brown College Certificates and Diplomas Program Details:
Completion of this program will eliminate the need for you to write TOEFL, IELTS, or George Brown's English Admissions Assessment
George Brown's Admissions Department will recognize these pathway courses as the English Language requirement for any George Brown full-time (without co-op) Certificate, Diploma, or Postgraduate Certificate programs
This pathway does not apply to programs with a co-op component
This pathway only applies while studying at George Brown and not at other institutions
Completing this pathway program doesn't guarantee entry to one of George Brown's certificate, postgraduate certificate, or diploma programs––you'll still be ranked with all other applicants for your program(s) of choice, and you'll need to meet any other requirements for your specific program
PLEASE NOTE:
Information related to courses, including length, dates, times, location, and delivery mode are subject to change without notice.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Educational Pathways
Graduates of the
Continuing Education ESL Pathway to George Brown College Certificates and Diplomas program
will have met the minimum English Language admissions requirement for any of our full-time (without co-op) Ontario College Certificate, Diploma or Postgraduate Certificate programs. This pathway is available within George Brown College only and does not apply to programs with a co-op component.
Courses
Required Courses
CON ED ESL PATHWAY COURSES
This Con Ed ESL Pathway applies to
(without co-op)
certificate, diploma and postgraduate programs at George Brown College
only
. Con Ed graduates who successfully complete the following mandatory courses will meet the minimum English language admission requirement for George Brown's (without co-op) certificate, diploma or postgraduate programs. This will eliminate the need for you to write TOEFL, IELTS or the GBC English Admissions assessment.
CODE
COURSE NAME
COURSE FEE
ESL 9068
ESL IIIB ADVANCED
$382.00
ESL 9073
Advanced Grammar and Composition Skills
$316.00
ESL 9069
Advanced Essay Writing.
$316.00
ESL 9078
OR
ESL 9077
ESL 9078
Academic Preparation for College/University Studies OR
ESL 9077
IELTS Exam Preparation
$284.00
Please note that completion of the Con Ed ESL courses listed above does not guarantee entrance into the GBC program. Con Ed ESL graduates will be considered and ranked among the other applicants to their program(s) of choice, and will also need to fulfil any other requirements specific to that program (e.g. math, science).
*Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for one course in the program starting in Fall 2023. Tuition fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
Please see the Courses tab for fee details
International Tuition
Please see the Courses tab for fee details
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
The Continuing Education ESL Pathway to George Brown College Certificates and Diplomas is comprised of four mandatory courses. Entry to each course requires the completion of a specific prerequisite course or the equivalent English placement test result. Before registering in the course, please refer to the
Courses
section above and verify the language requirements for your respective course.
How to Apply
Domestic and International Students:
To apply for the program, please visit the Courses section and register directly in your respective course(s) by following the instructions provided.
International Students of R903 program:
You
DO NOT
need to apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance at 1-800-265-2002.
Call the
School of ESL
office at 416-415-5000, ext. 4826 or email
conedesl@georgebrown.ca
PLEASE NOTE:
Courses in this program are for continuing education purposes only. To earn credits toward a full-time George Brown program, we offer the English for Academic Purposes program:
Domestic Students – visit English for Academic Purposes Program (R105)
International Students – visit English for Academic Purposes Program (R115)
Visit Our Campus
Take our
virtual tour
to see our state-of-the-art facilities in downtown Toronto.
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.