Cook Apprentice Program (H601)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Cook Apprentice
Code:
H601
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Part-time
Duration:
2–5 years
Starting Months:
Open enrolment
Domestic Tuition:
$678.00 (Classroom fee)* †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Apprenticeship
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Not Available
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Culinary Skills (H134)
Culinary Management (H100)
Baker / Patissier Apprentice Program (H600)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This is the place for discovering unmatched opportunities for exceptional graduates. The
Cook Apprenticeship
program is an excellent option if you want hands-on learning, lots of flexibility, and the freedom to earn while you learn.
Full Description
Learn a skilled occupation by combining in-school learning and paid on-the-job training with the
Cook Apprenticeship (H601)
program. If you already have practical experience as a cook, you can:
build upon your work experience
experience hands-on training
learn the related theory in an innovative program that fits within your work schedule
get the qualifications you need without taking a long-term absence from your job
Apprenticeship training is an agreement between a person wishing to learn a skill and an employer who can provide the environment for skills training. Administered by the Apprenticeship Client Services Branch of the Ontario Ministry of Labour, Immigration, Training and Skills Development (MLITSD), an apprenticeship is the best way to continue your journey on a promising career path. Upon completion, apprentices return to the industry more confident and with an updated skill set that prepares them for greater job opportunities.
There are two levels of in-school training (H601 and H607) in the Cook Apprenticeship program:
Level I: Learn the fundamental culinary skills and theories required to be a cook in a modern kitchen. There will also be a focus on management practices such as kitchen management and business development.
Level II: Develop advanced culinary skills, as well as the management practices required to become a leader in the kitchen.
You can earn your official Red Seal certification as a cook from the Ontario Ministry of Labour, Immigration, Training and Skills Development (MLITSD) by completing on-the-job and classroom training under the sponsorship of a registered employer.
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Your Field Education Options
Apprenticeship training is an agreement between a person wishing to learn a skill and an employer who can provide the environment for skills training. Administered by the Apprenticeship Client Services Branch of the Ontario Ministry of Labour, Immigration, Training and Skills Development (MLITSD).
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
George Brown College has an international reputation for producing talented and creative culinary graduates who are working on the cutting edge of the industry all around the world. Many of our Cook Apprentice graduates have gone on to higher levels of chef certification and prestigious positions in the industry. This program gives you all the preparation you need to write the exam for official Red Seal certification as a cook from the Ontario Ministry of Labour, Immigration, Training and Skills Development (MLITSD).
Once you pass the certification exam, you'll be ready to pursue a rewarding career as a cook in restaurants, hotel dining rooms, cafés, hospitals, clubs and resorts, spas and catering companies.
Courses
Required Courses
H601 COOK APPRENTICESHIP – BASIC
Code
Course Name
HOSF 6161
Sanitation, Safety and Equipment
HOSF 6143
Basic Nutrition
HOSF 6123
Business Development – Basic
HOSF 6124
Kitchen Management – Basic
HOSF 6125
Food Theory – Basic
HOSF 6126
Culinary Techniques – Basic
HOSF 6127
Bake Theory
HOSF 6128
Techniques of Baking – Basic
H607 COOK APPRENTICESHIP – ADVANCED
Code
Course Name
HOSF 6133
Business Development – Advanced
HOSF 6134
Kitchen Management – Advanced
HOSF 6135
Food Theory – Advanced
HOSF 6136
Culinary Techniques – Advanced
HOSF 6138
Techniques of Baking – Advanced
Detailed course outlines
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$678.00 (Classroom fee)* †
Additional Costs
* Amount listed is for one level of the program starting in Fall 2023. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
† Additional Cost (subject to change)
Description
Cost
Uniform
$290
Knives and small wares
$500–$700
Books
$400–$600
Black safety shoes
$110–$160
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
you must be registered as an apprentice with the Ontario Ministry of Labour, Immigration, Training and Skills Development (MLITSD)
and have a registered employer sponsor
** Mature Student status (19 years of age or older)
Course Exemptions
Certain Ontario Academic Credit (OAC), college or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Many courses are also eligible for prior learning assessment, based on your previous education and experiential learning. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens, including nuts, dairy and shellfish, are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
An apprenticeship is a pathway to a rewarding career. Visit
Apprenticeship in Ontario
to learn more.
You must be registered as a cook apprentice with the Ontario Ministry of Labour, Immigration, Training and Skills Development (MLITSD), and have a registered employer sponsor and at least one year of industry experience. You must also have an Ontario Secondary School Diploma with credits at or above the general level, or qualify for mature student status.
Contact Us
ADMISSIONS
For admission requirements and fees, see your local Ministry of Labour, Immigration, Training and Skills Development (Apprenticeship) office. Visit the Toronto office at 14th Floor, 400 University Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M7A 1T7, or call 416-326-7600.
Cook Apprentice Program (H601)
For general Chef School inquiries, please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Visit Our Campus
Join us for Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Culinary Skills (H134)
Culinary Management (H100)
Baker / Patissier Apprentice Program (H600)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.