Culinary Skills Program (H134)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Culinary Skills
Code:
H134
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$7,732.00 * †
International Tuition:
$21,770.00 ** †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Open
Opens Aug 6, 2024
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Culinary Management (H100)
Cook Apprentice (H601)
Culinary Management (Integrated Learning) (H116)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Get ready for a career as a cook or a chef with the one-year
Culinary Skills
certificate program. Learn the fundamentals of food preparation from professional chefs, explore a wide range of ingredients and discover the world of food culture.
Full Description
Learn the fundamentals of food preparation and develop your skills in our cooking labs, guided and supported by culinary faculty with the one-year
Culinary Skills (H134)
certificate program. Explore emerging and established culinary movements such as local, sustainable, nutrition-focused, and international cuisines. This program will broaden your knowledge and give you the chef training you need to succeed in today’s food service industry.
Here are some of the skills you'll be able to show off after completing the Culinary Skills program:
core cooking and bak
ing skills
appreciation for nutrition
menu planning and food, beverage and labour cost control
solid knife skills an
d cooking techniques gained through practice and repetition
Program Schedule
The Culinary Skills program operates from Monday to Friday. Some classes may begin at 7 a.m., and others may run until 10 p.m.
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Toronto alone has more than 7,500 restaurants, hotel dining rooms, cafés, eateries, numerous clubs, resorts, spas and catering companies. The culinary skills you learn at George Brown are in demand by employers both in Canada and internationally, and you will have the training to build a successful career at home or around the world.
Educational Pathways
Graduates may qualify for direct entry to the second year of the
Culinary Management
diploma program. Please contact the program coordinator for further information.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
HOST1068
Smart Serve
HOSF1184
Café Production*
HOSF1185
Fundamentals of Butchery*
HOSF1255
Nutrition Fundamentals from a Culinary Perspective
HOSF1002
Baking and Pastry for Cooks*
HOSF1202
Culinary Foundations*
HOSF1203
Culinary Essentials*
HOSF1029
Theory of Food I
HOSF1145
Sanitation
HOSF1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
MATH1200
Culinary Math Essentials
COMM2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
GSCI1035
Science of Sustainability
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
HOSF1287
WHMIS
HOSF1166
Foods of the World*
HOSF1204
Culinary Principles*
HOSF1205
Culinary Concepts*
HOSF1031
Theory of Food II
HOST1005
Food, Beverage and Labour Cost Control (hybrid)
HOSF1296
Beverage and Service Fundamentals*
HOSF1297
The Sustainable Chef*
HOST1126
Career Preparation*
* seven-week courses
** Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit our
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Provide fundamental culinary preparation and presentation for a variety of food service environments using a range of classical and contemporary techniques.
Apply basic food and bake science to food preparation to create the desired end product.
Contribute to and monitor adherence of others to the provision of a well-maintained kitchen environment and to the service of food and beverage products that are free from harmful bacteria or other contaminants, adhering to health, safety, sanitation and food-handling regulations.
Ensure the safe operation of the kitchen and all aspects of food preparation to promote healthy workspaces and the responsible, efficient use of resources.
Support the development of menu options that reflect knowledge of nutrition and food ingredients, promote general health and well-being, respond to a range of nutritional needs and preferences, and address modifications for special diets, food allergies and intolerances, as required.
Apply fundamental business principles and recognized industry costing and control practices to food service operations to promote a fiscally responsible operation.
Apply basic knowledge of sustainability, ethical and local food sourcing, and food security to food preparation and kitchen management, recognizing the potential impacts on food production, consumer choice, and operations within the food service industry.
Use technology, including contemporary kitchen equipment, for food production and promotion.
Perform effectively as a food and beverage preparation and service team member and contribute to the success of a food service operation by applying self-management and interpersonal skills.
Develop strategies for continuous personal and professional learning to ensure currency with and responsiveness to emerging culinary techniques, regulations, and practices in the food service industry.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,732.00 * †
International Tuition
$21,770.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.  This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
†
Additional Cost
Description
Cost
Small wares
$100–$300
Books
$400
Note: Semester 1 tuition fees include the cost of a culinary kit, safety shoes, and Chef School uniform.
Please view the following for a detailed list of what is contained in the culinary kit:
George Brown Culinary Kit Detailed List
George Brown Culinary Kit Visual
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
Grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens including nuts, dairy and shellfish are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances. However, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
CULINARY SKILLS (H134)
For general Chef School inquiries, please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Culinary Management (H100)
Cook Apprentice (H601)
Culinary Management (Integrated Learning) (H116)
Born and raised in Toronto, this unstoppable sister duo can definitely stand the heat in the kitchen. As alumni of the Culinary Skills program, these sisters took their love for food to another level. Crystal and Celeste Ceres founded
Sacraspice
, a charity that delivers cooking workshops to teach young people essential culinary skills. The two decided to start the charity after seeing an evident need for food education amongst youth. They spread the motto of Bringing Healthy Back, which bridges the intersections between food, community, and physical and mental health.
Crystal & Celeste Ceres
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.