Culinary Management – Nutrition Program (H119)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Culinary Management – Nutrition
Code:
H119
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$7,819.00 * †
International Tuition:
$21,195.00 ** †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing and that is why we have incorporated work-integrated learning opportunities into all CHCA programs.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Culinary Management (H100)
Food and Nutrition Management (Postgraduate) (H402)
Culinary Management (Integrated Learning) (H116)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This program is eligible for
a $1000 entrance award.
Combine the art of culinary with the science of nutrition with the
Culinary Management – Nutrition
diploma program. This two-year program prepares you to work in a range of environments focused on food and nutrition in roles that could include chef, cook, entrepreneur, food service manager, recipe/product developer or culinary trainer.
Full Description
Blend your passions for food, cooking and health and prepare for a rewarding career with the
Culinary Management – Nutrition (H119)
program. In this two-year diploma program, you'll develop culinary techniques and learn about food service management, healthy menu design and recipe/product development with the latest advances in the field of nutrition. And you'll gain real-world experience that employers value.
Get the skills needed to meet the demands of increasingly health-conscious consumers in a range of food and nutrition-focused environments, including restaurants, resorts, schools, spas, seniors' residences and long-term care facilities. Students also develop the skills needed to launch a business as an entrepreneur.
You'll learn through demonstrations, lectures and hands-on culinary practice. Students also complete a seven-week industry work-integrated learning experience—a great head start as you begin your career.
Program Schedule
The Culinary Management – Nutrition program currently operates from Monday to Friday. Note: Some classes may begin at 7 a.m., and others may run until 10 p.m.
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Your Field Education Options
You will complete a seven-week industry work-integrated learning placement in your final semester. George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities within Culinary Management they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the program's learning outcomes.
This valuable work experience can, in turn, be added to your resumé. In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide learning opportunities with real-world challenges and customers.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
You will be on your way to a fulfilling career in a variety of organizations focused on food and nutrition. This includes:
restaurants
hotels
spas
resorts
schools
manufacturers
health and fitness facilities
seniors' residences and long-term care facilities
private chef
Your training will also provide you with the skills necessary to start your own business as an entrepreneur, perhaps as a personal chef. You will have the freedom to go in multiple directions with positions related to food preparation, menu design, quality assurance and recipe/food concept development.
Some of our graduates enjoy rewarding positions as chefs, cooks, food service managers, recipe/product developers, entrepreneurs or culinary trainers.
Educational Pathways
Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Food and Nutrition Management Program (Postgraduate) (H402)
If you’re a Culinary Management – Nutrition graduate with a passion for health care and nutrition and a desire to help others while taking your career to the next level, our one-year
Food and Nutrition Management
graduate certificate program is what you’re looking for.
The H402 Food and Nutrition Management program is accredited by the Canadian Society of Nutrition Management, which is necessary for employment as a Food and Nutrition Manager in Ontario.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
HOSF1029
Theory of Food 1
HOST1068
Smart Serve
HOSF1294
Nutrition And Wellness
HOSF1229
Nutrition Analysis and Food Labelling
HOSF1247
Culinary Nutrition Skills – Foundations*
HOSF1248
Culinary Nutrition Skills – Essentials*
HOSF1145
Sanitation
HOSF1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
MATH1200
Culinary Math Essentials
COMM2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
GSCI1035
Science of Sustainability
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
HOSF1257
Nutrition and Culture
HOSF1191
Culinary Nutrition - Desserts
HOSF1249
Culinary Nutrition Skills – Cultures I*
HOSF1250
Culinary Nutrition Skills – Cultures II*
HOSF1226
Introduction to the Science of Food
HOST1005
Food, Beverage and Labour Cost Control (Hybrid)
HOSF2040
Advanced Sanitation
HOST 1126
Career Preparation*
HOSF 1287
WHMIS
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
HOSF1156
Nutrition for Life
HOSF2036
Menu Applications
HOSF2037
Introduction to Quality Assurance
HOSF2069
Culinary Nutrition for Life I*
HOSF2056
Introduction to Industry Research Project
HOSF2081
Hospitality Leadership and Communication
HOSF2070
Culinary Nutrition for Life II*
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
HOSF1159
Chef’s Kitchen*
HOSF2041
Fundamentals of Wine and Service*
HOSF2042
Quantity Cooking for Nutrition Issues*
HOSF2043
Nutrition Issues*
HOSF2057
Culinary Industry Research and Development* (Interactive Lab)
HOSF2075
Industry Externship*
GNED
General Education Elective
* seven-week course
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 Introduction to College Communication before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Provide advanced culinary planning, preparation and presentation for a variety of food service environments using a range of classical and contemporary techniques.
Apply basic and advanced food and bake science to food preparation to create the desired end product.
Contribute to and monitor adherence of others to the provision of a well-maintained kitchen environment and to the service of food and beverage products that are free from harmful bacteria or other contaminants, adhering to health, safety, sanitation and food-handling regulations.
Ensure the safe operation of the kitchen and all aspects of food preparation to promote healthy workspaces, responsible kitchen management and efficient use of resources.
Create menus that reflect knowledge of nutrition and food ingredients, promote general health and well-being, respond to a range of nutritional needs and preferences, and address modifications for special diets, food allergies and intolerances, as required.
Apply business principles and recognized industry costing and control practices to food service operations to manage and promote a fiscally responsible operation.
Apply knowledge of sustainability, ethical and local food sourcing, and food security to food preparation and kitchen management, recognizing the potential impacts on food production, consumer choice and operations within the food service industry.
Select and use technology, including contemporary kitchen equipment, for food production and promotion.
Perform effectively as a food and beverage preparation and service team member and contribute to the success of a food service operation by applying self-management and interpersonal skills.
Develop strategies for continuous personal and professional learning to ensure currency with and responsiveness to emerging culinary techniques, regulations and practices in the food service industry.
Contribute to the development of marketing strategies that promote the successful operation of a food service business.
Contribute to the business management of a variety of food and beverage operations to foster an engaging work environment that reflects service excellence.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,819.00 * †
International Tuition
$21,195.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
† Additional Cost
Description
Cost
Small wares
$100–$300
Textbooks
$700
Note: Semester 1 tuition fees include the cost of a culinary kit, safety shoes, and Chef School uniform.
Please view the following for a detailed list of what is contained in the culinary kit:
George Brown Culinary Kit Detailed List
George Brown Culinary Kit Visual
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
Grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens including nuts, dairy and shellfish are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
CULINARY MANAGEMENT-NUTRITION (H119)
For general Chef School inquiries, please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Culinary Management (H100)
Food and Nutrition Management (Postgraduate) (H402)
Culinary Management (Integrated Learning) (H116)
"The H119 program provided me with an opportunity to acquire the essential culinary skills and nutritional education I needed to enter a professional field. The state-of-the-art facilities and knowledgeable and experienced chefs and teachers further enhanced my learning experience."
Khadija Atcha
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.