Cyber Security Program (Postgraduate) (T433)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Cyber Security
Code:
T433
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$12,602.00 *
International Tuition:
$27,055.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Computer Technology
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Cyber Security (Postgraduate) (T433)
Information Systems Business Analysis (with experiential learning capstone) (Postgraduate) (T405)
Wireless Networking (Postgraduate) (T411)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
With more businesses putting their data into the cloud, the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability of digital assets is vital to their success and survival. Cyber security professionals are critical in protecting business assets in all areas of our economy, and we created the
Cyber Security
one-year graduate certificate program to meet the high demand for cyber security and related IT security professionals across multiple sectors––including consulting services, finance, and healthcare.
To keep pace with the rapid advancement in technology and trends, today's cyber security professionals must be proficient in traditional networking and cloud-based technologies, while possessing strong communication skills. They also need to be up-to-date with security trends and practices, the legal landscape, and ethical hacking. This program will give you the knowledge you need to succeed in this exciting field.
Full Description
As a student in the one-year
Cyber Security
graduate certificate program, you'll begin with learning the theory and practical skills you need to become a cyber security professional, including the differences and similarities between cyber security and hacking. You'll learn about the primary attack surfaces (physical, social, electronic), methods for compromising the attack surfaces, and how to mitigate vulnerabilities.
In the third semester, we'll teach you advanced techniques in ethical hacking incident response. A capstone group project will give you a chance to showcase your skills and talents for potential employers. These skills include:
digital forensics and incident response management
ethical hacking and analyzing malware
delivering security training
applying cryptography
On top of traditional technical skills, today's cyber security professionals require many non-technical skills and talents, such as:
analytical skills
written and verbal communication
project and time management skills
interpersonal and conflict management skills
After graduating from this program, you'll be prepared to help defend organizations from the many current and emerging cyber threats, including malware, network attacks, and data compromise. You'll know how to monitor, assess, and evaluate security risks and threats to physical and digital infrastructure. Plus, you'll be able to develop and implement security contingency planning, and lead the development of policies and procedures to mitigate security risks.
Delivery
This full-time program is delivered in a blended format, combining face-to-face sessions with online delivery, designed to accommodate those who wish to work while taking the program.
This schedule will require that learners attend classes that generally take place in the late afternoons and evenings through the week, plus all day Saturday.
Technology Requirements
This program requires you to have access to a personal laptop with the following specifications:
8 GB RAM (16 GB recommended)
Support for virtualization
256 GB SSD Hard Drive (500+ GB is optimal)
2 TB (minimum) external hard drive
Webcam + mic
Consistent access to a reliable high-speed internet connection
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Because of the increase in cyber security–related attacks, employer demand for cyber security professionals is increasing, and growth is projected to continue. According to World Economic Forum (WEF), Global Risks Report 2022, "There is an undersupply of cyber professionals—a gap of more than three million worldwide—who can provide cyber leadership, test and secure systems, and train people in digital hygiene."
Educational Pathways
Students who successfully complete this program may qualify for entry into Ontario college graduate certificate and university degree programs.
For further information, see
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
PRINTABLE CURRICULUM PLANNER 2024-2025
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
COMP 4039
Network Foundations
COMP 4041
Operating Systems
COMP 4043
Legality and Compliance in Security
COMP 4044
Introduction to Cyberspace Security
COMP 4040
Introduction to SOC
COMP 4047
ICT Competencies
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
COMP 4065
Intermediate SOC
COMP 4066
SETA Development and Delivery
COMP 4055
Cryptography and Network Security
COMP 4056
Secure Network Architecture
COMP 4057
Ethical Hacking
COMP 4058
Security Trends and Issues
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
COMP 4074
Wireless Network Security
COMP 4060
Risk Analysis
COMP 4063
Capstone Project
COMP 4071
Digital Forensics and Incident Response
COMP 4077
Advanced Ethical Hacking
COMP 4078
Advanced SOC
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Develop and implement cyber security solutions considering the affordances and limitations of the computer operating systems, networks, application software and packages available.
Develop best practices to protect business resources through the application of knowledge of vulnerabilities and exploits.
Develop cyber security strategies for the deployment of security procedures and protective devices.
Integrate cyber security strategies that support business functions by employing knowledge of best practices of business processes and systems.
Develop cyber security strategies and processes for business communications that respond to the needs of all the internal stakeholders.
Develop cyber security solutions and strategies that ensure the integrity of information in compliance with best practices, relevant policies, standards and regulations.
Plan, implement and evaluate cyber security policies and strategies using project management principles to effectively respond to the needs of the organization's information security requirements.
Perform security audits to ensure risk mitigation and compliance with security plans, policies, standards, regulations and best practices.
Develop and deliver a corporate training program to communicate both orally and in writing the cybersecurity requirements for compliance with security policies.
Communicate cyber security protocols, policies and audit results and related documentation to any level of the organization.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$12,602.00 *
International Tuition
$27,055.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Two-year college diploma or bachelor's degree in Information Technology, Computer Sciences or a related field.
OR
Two- or three-year college diploma or bachelor's degree in any field.
PLUS one year of related work experience, as evidenced by a resumé. Resumé should be submitted through
ontariocolleges.ca
with your application or via the GBC Online Application System (OAS) for international applicants.
English Language Proficiency
English language proficiency is essential. Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Computer Technology
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4287
Email:
computertechnology@georgebrown.ca
The office hours are:
Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Program coordinator: Jacky Min
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 6691
Email:
jmin@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
The Cyber Security program is offered through our
School of Computer Technology
from our
Casa Loma Campus
at
146 Kendal Avenue
in Toronto. Sign up for an
information session
or
campus tour
to learn more about George Brown College and the program. You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Cyber Security (Postgraduate) (T433)
Information Systems Business Analysis (with experiential learning capstone) (Postgraduate) (T405)
Wireless Networking (Postgraduate) (T411)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.