Dance Performance Program (P105)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Dance Performance
Code:
P105
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,769.00 * ‡
International Tuition:
$19,598.00 ** ‡
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Media & Performing Arts
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Commercial Dance (P106)
Dance Performance Preparation (P101)
Graphic Design (G102)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
George Brown’s
Dance Performance
program is a demanding, exciting two-year diploma program that sets the stage for a fulfilling future as a professional ballet and/or contemporary dancer. Our program will help elevate your technical and performance prowess as you prepare to launch a successful performance career.
Full Description
This rigorous and comprehensive two-year
Dance Performance
diploma program will give you the foundation and skills you need for a thrilling career as a professional dancer. By the time you graduate, you'll be a classical ballet and/or contemporary dancer with the professional expertise, technical know-how, and industry connections to make it in the competitive dance industry.
You'll choose to specialize in classical or contemporary dance and train in ballet, modern, and jazz. You'll also get to study acting, vocal, repertoire, and composition to boost your versatility and job prospects.
Here are more details on the two streams you can choose from:
The
Classical Stream
is for intermediate/advanced ballet students and includes more advanced training in ballet and pointe.
The
Contemporary Stream
is for intermediate-level ballet students and includes additional contemporary training and the option of less-advanced pointe classes.
STUDENT SELECTION
To qualify for this program, you’ll need to have intermediate-level classical ballet training with pointe work, as well as experience in other dance forms. You'll then have to pass an audition in ballet and jazz, plus an interview to ensure the perfect fit.
To learn more about the audition process, visit
Dance Auditions page
.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Our graduates are working! Some of the many places they've found work include:
Traditional dance companies and festivals:
apprenticing, performing, and touring with established dance companies and festivals such as Stratford, Ballet Jörgen Canada, and the Charlottetown Festival.
The project-based dance industry:
applying for funding for their own projects, choreographing, founding companies, joining/forming groups and producing shows, and performing in festivals, cabarets, theatres, and resorts.
Film and television:
appearing in productions and music videos, and developing dance on film projects.
The dance training studio industry, driven by television and live dance competitions:
teaching, choreographing, coaching and judging, as well as founding and taking ownership of their own studios.
The dance fitness and workshop industry:
teaching and developing the expanding market of dance fitness and specialized workshops, and taking this product across Canada and abroad.
The sports and dance teams industry:
cheerleading, and forming and joining dance teams.
Some graduates continue on to arts and master’s degrees in universities and continued professional development in fields such as circus performance, personal fitness, stage management, nutrition, and physical therapies.
Educational Pathways
For further information, see the
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
In order to graduate, you must successfully complete all of the required credits and appear in the semesters 2 and 4 showcases.
Showcase rehearsal hours will be scheduled in semesters 2 and 4 and are categorized as in-class mandatory homework hours. There will be between 2 and 10 hours of rehearsal per week, mostly during semesters 2 and 4, until each showcase performance. Production week at the theatre may also require additional hours.
*
At the time of your course selection,
you will be required to choose between Pointe classes or Dance & Physicality classes
. Once you have made your choice for semester one, you cannot switch between specializations in future semesters, as you will not have the prerequisite grade required.
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
DANC 1003
Classical Ballet – Practical I
DANC 1005
Pointe I*
or
DANC 1083
Dance and Physicality I*
DANC 1007
Jazz I
DANC 1009
Modern I
DANC 1022
Music Theory
DANC 1052
Vocal Skills for Dance I
DANC 1054
Acting Skills for Dance I
DANC 1077
Repertoire I
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
DANC 1004
Classical Ballet – Practical II
DANC 1006
Pointe II*
or
DANC 1084
Dance and Physicality II*
DANC 1008
Jazz II
DANC 1010
Modern II
DANC 1053
Vocal Skills for Dance II
DANC 1055
Acting Skills for Dance II
DANC 1080
Showcase Rehearsal (Field Education)
DANC 2013
Repertoire – Group
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
DANC 1027
Acting for Dance III
DANC 1028
Vocal for Dance III
DANC 2003
Classical Ballet – Practical III
DANC 2005
Pointe III*
or
DANC2018
Dance and Physicality III*
DANC 2007
Modern III
DANC 2009
Jazz III
DANC 1078
Repertoire II
DANC 1011
Composition Studies I
DANC 2016
Professional Practice
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
DANC 1029
Acting for Dance IV
DANC 1030
Vocal for Dance IV
DANC 1070
Business Skills for Dancers
DANC 1081
Showcase Rehearsal II
DANC 2004
Classical Ballet – Practical IV
DANC 2006
Pointe IV*
or
DANC 2019
Dance and Physicality IV*
DANC 2008
Modern IV
DANC 2010
Jazz IV
DANC 2014
Repertoire III
DANC 2015
Composition Studies II
GNED
General Education Elective
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Perform advanced classical ballet and modern dance technique in choreographed solo and ensemble productions.
Perform jazz dance technique in choreographed solo and ensemble productions.
Sing at an intermediate level using pulse, rhythm and metre in both solo presentations and chorus productions.
Create artistically expressive dramatic characterizations in a dance context at an advanced level in both solo and ensemble performances.
Present self professionally at auditions and in industry environments through resumés, biographical backgrounds and photographs to advance artistic and career opportunities.
Develop self-knowledge and reflective practice to make informed artistic, pedagogical, personal development and career choices within the performing arts industry.
Apply pedagogical skills and concepts to educate students in the areas of ballet, modern and jazz dance training.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,769.00 * ‡
International Tuition
$19,598.00 ** ‡
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials (non-refundable), student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials (non-refundable), student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
‡ There will be a $65 audition fee (payable in cash or cheque only) when you arrive on the day of your audition for P101, P105 or P106.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**.
Grade 12 English (C or U).
GBD is accepting audition requests through video submissions. Visit the
Auditions page at Ballet Jörgen
for program audition requirements.
For more information on auditions, please email
auditions@balletjorgen.ca
or visit
Dance Auditions
.
A minimum of intermediate level training in classical ballet (5–7 years); pointe work is required, as well as training in jazz and/or modern dance.
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Media and Performing Arts
Kia Kotsanis, Program Co-ordinator
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2196
Email:
dance@georgebrown.ca
or
education@balletjorgen.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered through our
School of Media and Performing Arts
and run in partnership with
Ballet Jörgen
. Classes take place at our
Casa Loma Campus
, located at
160 Kendal Ave
., Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Commercial Dance (P106)
Dance Performance Preparation (P101)
Graphic Design (G102)
“As a dancer who wants to dance all the time, GBD is “the dream”. Students get to dance pretty much all day, which allows you to spend valuable time training and practicing. I knew how important ballet was for fundamental dance training and we received this training daily. Students are also trained in contemporary, jazz dance, vocals, acting, composition and choreography. The program targets every point of the spectrum of dance you will need to become a professional.”
Read more about Bethany’s story.
Bethany Pethick
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.