Dance Performance Preparation Program (P101)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Dance Performance Preparation
Code:
P101
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,820.00 * ‡
International Tuition:
$19,650.00 ** ‡
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Media & Performing Arts
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Dance Performance (P105)
Commercial Dance (P106)
Graphic Design (G102)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
George Brown’s
Dance Performance Preparation
program is an exciting one-year certificate that sets the stage for a fulfilling future in dance. Our program will help elevate your technical and performance prowess, whether you want to continue studying dance, or launch a career in the dance industry.
Full Description
In just one action-packed year, we'll turn your passion for dancing into the foundation for a thrilling career in the professional dance world. The
Dance Performance Preparation
program provides a holistic training experience that covers classical ballet, modern dance, and jazz, all backed by studies in vocal and acting to boost your versatility and job prospects.
Student Selection
To qualify for this program, you’ll need to have dance training at the elementary classical ballet level, along with experience in other dance forms. You’ll then have to pass an audition in ballet and jazz, plus an interview to ensure the perfect fit.
To learn more about the audition process, visit the
Dance Auditions
page.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Our graduates have a solid foundation for continued study. Graduates use their singular or combined skills and discipline in dance, voice and acting to pursue further professional training at George Brown Dance or gain entrance to other respected programs around the country and abroad.
Educational Pathways
The Dance Performance Preparation program (P101) strengthens your dance technique and can be a valuable start prior to going on to further training. Graduates of P101 can audition for
Dance Performance (P105)
and
Commercial Dance (P106)
and if successful, may be eligible for some credit toward this future study.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
DANC 1016
Classical Ballet – Basic I
DANC 1020
Vocal for Dance I
DANC 1021
Acting for Dance I
DANC 1022
Music Theory
DANC 1031
Jazz – Basic I
DANC 1032
Modern - Basic I
DANC 1079
Hip Hop Basic I
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
DANC 1018
Classical Ballet – Basic II
DANC 1023
Acting for Dance II
DANC 1024
Vocal for Dance II
DANC 1033
Jazz – Basic II
DANC 1034
Modern – Basic II
DANC 1077
Repertoire I
DANC 1080
Showcase Rehearsal (Field Education)
DANC 1082
Hip Hop Basic II
Showcase rehearsal hours are between 2 and 10 hours of rehearsal per week until the Showcase performance. Production week at the theatre may also require additional hours.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Execute classical ballet, jazz and modern dance technique at a basic level in choreographed solo and ensemble presentations.
Sing at a basic level using breathing, dynamics and accuracy of pitch in both solo and chorus presentations.
Execute dramatic works that connect emotionally with audience, both individually and within an ensemble presentation, at a basic level.
Present self professionally at auditions and through resumés, biographical backgrounds and photographs to advance artistic and career opportunities.
Develop and apply self-knowledge and reflective practice to make informed artistic and personal choices.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,820.00 * ‡
International Tuition
$19,650.00 ** ‡
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
‡ There will be a $60 audition fee (payable in cash or money order only) when you arrive on the day of your audition for P101, P105 or P106.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
GBC is accepting audition requests through video submissions. Visit the
Auditions page at Ballet Jörgen
for program audition requirements.
For more information on auditions, please email
auditions@balletjorgen.ca
or visit
Dance Auditions
.
A minimum of five years training in jazz or modern dance and elementary level training in ballet (1–3 years).
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Media and Performing Arts
Kia Kotsanis, Program Co-ordinator
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2196
Email:
dance@georgebrown.ca
or
education@balletjorgen.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered through our
School of Media and Performing Arts
and run in partnership with
Ballet Jörgen
. Classes take place at our
Casa Loma Campus
, located at
160 Kendal Ave
., Toronto, ON, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Dance Performance (P105)
Commercial Dance (P106)
Graphic Design (G102)
When I got into Dance Performance Preparation program I decided to take the opportunity to get back into dance and it really boosted my confidence. I think it made me into more of a mature dancer because now I can really understand my body and what I have to do to reach my goals.”
Read more about Katie’s story.
Katie Couchie
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.