Deafblind & Intervenor Studies Program (C158)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Deafblind & Intervenor Studies
Code:
C158
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,685.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,360.00 **
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Deaf & Deafblind Studies
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Yes
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
American Sign Language and Deaf Studies (C114)
Personal Support Worker (PSW) (C112)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
George Brown College is the first Canadian college to offer a Deafblind Intervenor certificate program.
Program Overview
The
Deafblind and Intervenor Studies
program prepares you to work with individuals who have combined vision and hearing loss. This is a hybrid program, including online and in-person components.
Full Description
The one-year
Deafblind and Intervenor Studies (C158)
certificate program prepares you to support individuals with combined hearing and vision loss, enabling them to access information and interact more fully with their environment.
If you have a passion for helping others, want to work in a dynamic and evolving sector, and are creative and a good communicator, consider becoming a Deafblind intervenor.
Courses are delivered in a hybrid (online and in-person) format in both semesters. You will also gain practical experience working directly with individuals who are Deafblind.
You’ll learn the following in this program:
how to work with Deafblind children and adults
how to support Deafblind individuals with complex medical needs that include aging
how to interact with members of the Deafblind community both virtually and in person
American Sign Language (ASL), a visual language adapted to accommodate those with dual sensory loss
alternate communication methods, professionalism, values, ethics, and sighted guide
Essential
Skills of an Intervenor
To be an effective Intervenor, we recommend that you have these key characteristics:
Strong communicator
– Clear and effective communication will be key as you will be responsible for providing access to visual, auditory, and environmental information.
Creative
– In some circumstances, to make information accessible, you may need to think and act creatively to properly relay situational information.
Flexible
– Being flexible is a key attribute, as each day "on the job" will be different from the next.
Trustworthy
– You will play an important role in the lives of your clients, so the ability to build trust easily is an important asset.
Is the Deafblind & Intervenor Studies (C158) program right for you?
Your Field Education Options
The field placement component of this program provides students with practical experience working directly with individuals who are Deafblind. Of the two placements we offer, one will be learning to work with consumers with congenital deafblindness and the other with acquired deafblindness.
Placements are scheduled two days per week in the second half of semester 2, for a total of 84 hours.
Students will participate in both observation and hands-on practice in each of the placements, applying the theory and technical skills they've learned to date.
Placements can be across the lifespan and can be with children, adults, and seniors and within a variety of educational and community settings.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Intervenors have the skills to facilitate communication with Deafblind people
across all aspects of day-to-day life, such as health care, business, education and social services.
These specialized communication tools are an asset for anyone who interacts with members of the Deafblind community.
This is a recognized profession in Ontario within school boards and agencies.
There are 6 key agencies whose primary role is supporting individuals with Deafblindness. Some examples of possible job titles include:
intervenor
team leader
supervisor
program co-ordinator
intervenor services co-ordinator
manager
In larger school boards, there is the Deafblind Intervenor position, and in smaller school boards, Intervenors are sometimes hired under Educational Assistant Positions and Signing Educational Assistant positions.
To broaden employment prospects, combine this certificate with:
Social Service Worker (C119)
Child and Youth Care (C133)
Early Childhood Education (C100)
Recreation Management in Gerontology (C152)
Personal Support Worker (C112)
Industry
Intervenors work with Deafblind individuals (children and adults) across Canada. Graduates can find employment with:
organizations serving Deafblind individuals
educational institutions and specialized school programs
contracts with individuals with deafblindness
community residential settings
Educational Pathways
This Deafblind and Intervenor Studies (C158) certificate provide a strong foundation for entering other programs at George Brown College, including:
American Sign Language and Deaf Studies (C114)
Child and Youth Care (C133)
Early Childhood Education (C100)
Personal Support Worker (C114)
Social Service Worker (C119)
Practical Nursing (S121)
Honours Bachelor of Interpretation-ASL English (C302)
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Course Name
Code
INTV 1020
Congenital Communication Strategies and Intervenor Principles I
INTV 1021
Acquired Communication Strategies and Intervenor Principles I
INTV 1022
American Sign Language 1
INTV 1023
Introduction to Deafblindness
INTV 1024
Value, Ethics and Professional Practice
INTV 1025
Introduction to Sensory Systems and Human Development
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Course Name
Code
INTV 1030
Congenital Communication Strategies and Intervenor Principles II
INTV 1031
Acquired Communication Strategies and Intervenor Principles II
INTV 1032
American Sign Language 2
INTV 1033
Impact of Health and Aging on Deafblindness
INTV 1034
Accessibility and Program Planning
INTV 1035
Field Placement Seminar
INTV 1036
Field Placement
INTV 1037
Introduction to Sighted Guide
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Integrate theory, principles, strategies and community resources into competent intervenor practice.
Perform the role of the intervenor in a safe, ethical manner that is consistent with professional practice and public policy.
Utilize a variety of alternative communication methods to effectively facilitate interactions between individuals who are Deafblind and others.
Examine the social-emotional impact of deafblindness on the lives of individuals, their families and their communities to appropriately adapt intervention strategies and respect cultural identification.
Identify current technologies and assistive devices to meet the unique needs of individuals with deafblindness.
Apply the appropriate strategies to develop or elaborate on concepts to promote understanding by the individual with deafblindness.
Examine the impact of physical health, mental health and aging on the individual with deafblindness to appropriately adapt and implement intervention strategies.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,685.00 *
International Tuition
$18,360.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U) with a minimum grade of 60 per cent or higher.
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a Vulnerable Sector Check completed, and this check must be renewed annually before entering into field or clinical placement. The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Vulnerable Sector Check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program. Our agency partners have the final decision for students being allowed to practice in their agency.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the police record check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Pre-placement website
.
Students are required to successfully complete a Ministry-approved crisis intervention training certificate in their fifth semester.
Our clinical placement partners may require students to show proof of vaccination. It is your responsibility to ensure all pre-clinical requirements are met.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Deaf and Deafblind Studies
Email:
communityservices@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Cheryl Ramey,
Program Coordinator, Deafblind & Intervenor Studies, email
cramey@georgebrown.ca​
For more information about George Brown College
Contact George Brown College | George Brown College
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
American Sign Language and Deaf Studies (C114)
Personal Support Worker (PSW) (C112)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.