Dental Office Administration Program (S115)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Dental Office Administration
Code:
S115
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,906.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,950.00 **
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Health Services Management
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Education
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Office Administration – Health Services (S135)
Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) (S113)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Proudly preparing dental office administrators for more than 25 years.
Program Overview
The
Dental Office Administration
program will teach you the administrative skills and clinical knowledge needed to work effectively in a dental practice. You'll also get ample hands-on experience off-site with a dental partner, so you'll be ready to work upon graduation.
Full Description
The one-year
Dental Office Administration (S115)
certificate program will equip you with the
office administrative skills
and
clinical knowledge
necessary to work effectively in a dental practice.
You will study dental office procedures such as:
preparation and maintenance of client records
inventory systems
recall systems
appointment scheduling
dental insurance
accounting
computer literacy (including dental software)
oro-facial anatomy
industry-specific terminology
basic clinical dentistry theory
Your Field Education Options
The field placement component of the Dental Office Administration program provides an important opportunity for you to apply what you've learned in the classroom, including the various procedures, operating systems and overall processes of a dental practice, to a real-world environment.
As a student in this program, you can expect to be off-site in placement in semester 2 between January and April. Our students are typically placed with a general or specialty dental practice for a minimum of 100 hours. During that time, you will have the chance to observe and participate in the day-to-day operations of a dental office.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Upon graduation from the Dental Office Administration program, you will be prepared to become an integral part of a dental health-care team.
Our Dental Office Administration graduates have found employment as administrative dental assistants within:
dental practices
specialty group practices
dental insurance companies
With experience, you may advance in your career to become a treatment coordinator, supervisor or office manager.
Dental Office Administration graduates are eligible to write the Ontario Dental Assistants Association (ODAA) Certified Dental Receptionist (CDR) examination. If successful, they are recognized as Certified Dental Receptionists.
Please visit the
Ontario Dental Assistants Association website
to learn more about this certification and the associated fees.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
ANAT 1032
Anatomy and Terminology I
CLIN 1001
The Clinical Environment I
DENT 1109
Dental Office Theory I
DENT 1111
Dental Software I
DENT 1120
Transition to Work
DENT 1121
The Dynamic Dental Practice
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication
Or
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Context**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
ANAT 1059
Anatomy and Terminology II
CLIN 1002
The Clinical Environment II
DENT 1122
Dental Office Theory II
DENT 1123
Dental Software II
DENT 1125
Field Education
HRM 1012
Developing People
** Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
web page for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Develop self-awareness and collaborative skills to support the development and maintenance of positive working relationships and inclusive team environments.
Relate models and theories of psychology and sociology to human behaviours and their application to human services professions.
Identify the impact of systemic barriers to equity and inclusion on marginalized groups in Canadian society.
Identify the professional requirements and opportunities in various human services fields to inform academic and professional goals.
Develop academic strengths and strategies to support success and wellness in lifelong learning and career development.
Apply communication and research skills to gather and convey information in a factual and objective manner.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,906.00 *
International Tuition
$17,950.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses and the selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
attending an information session is highly recommended
basic knowledge of keyboarding skills is recommended
basic knowledge of computer skills is recommended.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice, and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
CPR level C requirement and program policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must provide proof of
CPR level C certificate
renewed every year.
COVID-19 vaccination:
Public Health recommends that people working with young children and other vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student. For more information, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
For more information, contact the
School of Health Services Management
at 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 or E-mail
hsmprograms@georgebrown.ca
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Register for an information session where you can:
talk to faculty in greater detail
check out our
WAVE Clinics
meet potential classmates
visit the Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences, Waterfront Campus, where your classes will be held
Register
Explore related programs:
Office Administration – Health Services (S135)
Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) (S113)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
To put it simply, being a George Brown student changed my life. Having graduated from the Dental Office Administration program, I was prepared for situations seen daily in a dental office. I acquired clinical knowledge and through the field placement requirement, my career was launched!
With the specific courses covered, I was taught the fundamentals of administrative dentistry, making me an exceptional candidate for employment.
Most importantly, my time at George Brown College taught me about myself and my passion. I have found a career as a Head Patient Coordinator, an opportunity that arose directly through my field placement!
Knowing I am a valued team member making a difference within my clinic and with our patients is an incredible feeling. There are opportunities for growth within my company and I am excited to see what the future holds.
It all began at George Brown College, and I am proud to be another blossoming Alumni!
Nadia Boduryan
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.