Dental Technology Program (S100)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Dental Technology
Code:
S100
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$9,795.00 * †
International Tuition:
$36,959.00 ** †
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Dental Health
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Education
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) (S113)
Denturism (S101)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
George Brown's Dental Technology is unique in Ontario and the largest of its kind in Canada.
Preparing graduates to work as dental technologists for over 20 years.
Program Overview
Students in the
Dental Technology
program will develop the specialized skills of a dental technologist, including how to design and fabricate various oral devices that have been prescribed to a patient by a regulated dental practitioner (often a dentist). Throughout this program, you will learn to make a range of dental appliances such as full dentures, partial dentures, crowns, bridges, implant-related restorations, orthodontic appliances and other specialty items.
Full Description
The three-year
Dental Technology (S100)
advanced diploma program will prepare you to work in the field of dental technology. If you want to work in the dental industry but don’t necessarily want to engage directly with client care, consider this profession. We recommend that you have an eye for detail, enjoy working with your hands and have good hand-eye coordination.
We’ll teach you to use a variety of tools to create oral devices that are prescribed by regulated dental practitioners (often a dentist). You’ll learn how to use specialized hand tools, moulds and the latest technology to make oral devices as unique as the individuals you will be creating them for. You’ll practise your skills in our on-site high-tech dental labs as we teach you to create:
full dentures
partial dentures
crowns
bridges
implant-regulated restorations
orthodontic appliances
other specialty items
Watch this video to learn how specialized 3D scanners and printers are changing how dentures are made.
Graduates of this program are eligible to apply to take the Canadian Alliance of Dental Technology Regulators (CADTR), Dental Technology Entry to Practice Assessment (DTETPA) and apply to the
College of Dental Technologists of Ontario
to obtain a Certificate of Registration.
(Note: Additional fees apply.) Without a certificate, graduates may work as a lab technician under the supervision of a Registered Dental Technologist. See
cdto.ca
for further information about registration with the College of Dental Technologists of Ontario.
Your Field Education Options
As this is a very hands-on profession, in-class practical laboratory assignments play an important role in helping to prepare students for the real-world work ahead.
In preparation for the external field component in year three, students will learn and practise skills in all areas of the dental laboratory, from introductory skills in model work to advanced digital dentistry procedures.
During semester 6, students will spend two days a week in class and three days per week off-site (approximately 21 hours per week) at an external professional laboratory. This experience provides students with a professional networking opportunity and the chance to practise their consolidated skills in a real-world setting.
PLEASE NOTE: Students are required to complete the pre-placement health form and organize their own external lab experience, and must have program approval prior to starting.
Interested in this program but need more competitive marks? Consider enrolling in the
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Advanced Diplomas and Degrees (A108) program
. This pre-program will help you develop new and strengthen existing skills in math, biology, chemistry, physics, and communication.
PLEASE NOTE: While successful graduates of the (A108) program will be eligible to apply to this advanced diploma, it does not guarantee entry into this program.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program are eligible to take the national entry to practice assessment with the Canadian Alliance of Dental Technology Regulators (CADTR) and on successful completion apply to the
College of Dental Technologists of Ontario (CDTO)
to obtain a General Certificate of Registration and become a Registered Dental Technologist (RDT). (NOTE: Additional fees apply.) Graduates can gain experience in various practice settings and by obtaining the RDT designation can advance to positions with more responsibility. RDTs are trusted and valued health professionals who play a key role in the oral health community of care.
See
cdto.ca
for further information about a Certificate of Registration with the CDTO.
Upon obtaining a General Certificate of Registration in the province of Ontario, RDTs may:
Practice the full scope of dental technology in a commercial dental laboratory or in a dental office.
Own and operate a dental laboratory that services oral health professionals.
Supervise the practice of dental technology performed by dental lab associates.
Branch into other positions such as educators and consultants.
Shape the regulation of dental technology by sharing subject matter knowledge on CDTO’s Council, Committees and programs.
Without obtaining a Certificate of Registration in the Province of Ontario, graduates may work as a:
dental lab associate under the direct supervision of an RDT or dentist
sales representative with a dental supply company
Educational Pathways
For information on future study options, see the
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
ANAT 1010
Functional Anatomy
ANAT 1068
Head and Neck Anatomy
DENT 1026
Complete Denture Construction I
DENT 1030
Orthodontics I
DENT 1150
Introduction to Dental Technology
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication (if necessary)
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
DENT 1014
Crown and Bridge I
DENT 1092
Complete Dentures II
DENT 1128
Dental Lab Materials
BIOL 1004
Microbiology and Infection Control
GSSC 1071
Understanding Intercultural Communication
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
DENT 1158
Cast Partial Dentures I
DENT 1159
Complete Dentures III
DENT 2002
Crown and Bridge II
DENT 1151
Introduction To CAD/CAM
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
DENT 2003
Crown and Bridge III
DENT 2004
Cast Partial Dentures II
DENT 2005
Complete Dentures IV
DENT 2014
Orthodontics II
DENT 2037
Ceramics I
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
DENT 2039
Oral Pathology for Dental Technologist
DENT 3011
Crown and Bridge IV
DENT 2024
Orthodontics III
DENT 3015
Ceramics II
MGMT 2012
Applied Management Practice
DENT 3055
Jurisprudence and Ethics for the Dental Technologist
DENT 3028
Field Placement
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
DENT 3008
Specialty Pre-Graduate Lab Experience
DENT 3027
Fixed/Removable Implants
DENT 3028
Field Placement
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Apply learned theory of biology, biomechanics, chemistry and anatomy in all relevant aspects of dental technology practice.
Employ safe and aseptic procedures when using and maintaining equipment and materials associated with the dental technology profession.
Select and utilize specified materials in the construction of dental prostheses, recognizing the materials’ limitations and advantages.
Complete all work in the dental technology practice in adherence to the legislative and ethical requirements of the profession.
Design and construct dental prostheses using current technologies and materials.
Analyze and evaluate the design and construction of dental prostheses.
Work and communicate effectively as part of an interdisciplinary health care team.
Identify effective business practices in the management of a dental laboratory.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$9,795.00 * †
International Tuition
$36,959.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include textbooks, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include textbooks, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
†
There will be additional costs to the program in each year of study, including textbooks, appropriate laboratory attire and personal protective equipment. There is a rental fee for some equipment on loan to the student.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U) – a grade of 70 per cent or higher is required.
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U) – A grade of 60 per cent or higher is required.
grade 11 Biology (C or U) or grade 12 (U) – A grade of 70 per cent or higher is required.
grade 11 Chemistry or Physics (U) or grade 12 Chemistry or Physics (C or U) – A grade of 60 per cent or higher is required.*
Please note: The manual dexterity test is no longer required for this program.
** Mature Student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, Math or Biology, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
Math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Standard First Aid with CPR level C Certificate and WHMIS (for new 1
st
year and 2
nd
year Returning students only)
Upon acceptance and confirmation into the program, students must register and show proof of Standard First Aid Certificate (renew every three years), CPR level C Certificate (renew every year) and Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS) certificate (renew every three years) which must remain valid every academic year. Once you've completed and received your certificate, you will need to submit and upload it to the ParaMed Placement Pass website and fees will apply. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form requirements and program policy (for 3
rd
year Returning students only)
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 8 to 10 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as TDAP shot, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres and Two-Step TB Skin Test),
CPR level C certificate
renewed every year, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the program specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Contact 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 or E-mail
sdhprograms@georgebrown.ca
for program information.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) (S113)
Denturism (S101)
“There is no better place to go for Dental Technology than George Brown College.”
Drew Ferraro
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.