Dental Hygiene Program (S134)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Dental Hygiene
Code:
S134
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$17,080.00 * †
International Tuition:
$36,137.00 ** †
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Dental Health
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
All students will have the opportunity to be involved in various external practical field education experiences.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Closed
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) (S113)
Restorative Dental Hygiene (Postgraduate) (S400)
Honours Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene) (S305)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Training dental hygienists for over 40 years.
Program Overview
The
Dental Hygiene
program teaches students the competencies and skills required to practise as a dental hygienist in the province of Ontario. This program focuses on developing interpersonal communication skills and professionalism while providing dental hygiene care.
Full Description
The
Dental Hygiene (S134)
advanced diploma
program prepares students to practise as primary oral health-care providers.
Over three years, students will learn to apply the dental hygiene process of care while developing professional relationship-building and communication skills such as:
learning to work as part of an interprofessional health-care team
a client-centred approach to care
interpersonal communication skills
Students will practise and develop the hands-on delivery of their newly learned skills while working with clients at our
WAVE Dental Clinic
.
Students will learn to work effectively as a collaborative dental team member in a client’s circle of care that will include a collaborative dental team that considers:
the client
the community
other health-care providers
Students will also learn to evaluate care as they help clients set short- and long-term goals for continued oral health care.
This Dental Hygiene program is accredited by the
Commission on Dental Accreditation of Canada.
Your Field Education Options
Field experience plays an important role in this six-semester program.
In semesters 1 and 2, students will practise newly learned dental hygiene skills first on manikins. In semesters 3, 4, 5 and 6, students will build on the dental hygiene process of care and will progress to treating real clients both at our on-site
WAVE Dental Clinic
and off-site with various community partners such as public health organizations, teaching hospitals and community health centres.
Our on-site
WAVE Dental Clinic
spans nearly 40,000 square feet and boasts an impressive 75 dental chairs, an additional 14 chairs complete with X-ray facilities, and 24 enclosed dental suites equipped for aerosol-generating procedures. The clinic provides a safe and controlled environment where students can practise their skills under the supervision of qualified oral health care professionals. Throughout their field experiences, students will learn to provide care across the lifespan, treating clients that range from simple to complex oral health-care needs.
The progression of practise is designed to help learners gain confidence in their knowledge of the various processes, instruments and techniques required to be a successful dental hygienist.
PLEASE NOTE: Travel to off-site placement sites may be required. Clinical hours include early mornings that can extend into the evening.
Are you interested in this program but need more competitive marks? Consider enrolling in the
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Advanced Diplomas and Degrees (A108) program
. This program will help you develop new and strengthen existing skills in math, biology, chemistry, physics, and communication.
PLEASE NOTE: While successful graduates of the (A108) program will be eligible to apply to this advanced diploma, it does not guarantee entry into this program.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program are eligible to apply to the
National Dental Hygiene Certification Examination
. (Note: Additional fees apply.) Successful completion is one of the requirements for registration by the College of Dental Hygienists of Ontario (CDHO) to practise in the province. For more information, visit the CDHO website
cdho.org
("A Guide to the Process of Becoming Registered as a Dental Hygienist in Ontario").
Dental hygienists are members of a self-regulated health profession.
Dental hygiene practice settings include:
clinical practice
community health services
hospitals
teaching institutions
collective living centres
research
the dental industry
Educational Pathways
Graduates who are an active registrant with the College of Dental Hygienists of Ontario and have current clinical dental hygiene experience for at least one full year are eligible to apply to George Brown's
Restorative Dental Hygiene program (S400).
Students in this postgraduate program learn to perform advanced restorative procedures and preventative measures and preventative measures. Students interested in advancing their skill set and expanding their scope of clinical practice should consider this program.
Dental Hygiene graduates interested in furthering their career beyond clinical practice should consider applying to our NEW Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene) (S305) fully online program. This degree completion program is the first of its kind in Ontario! In just three semesters you will earn a degree focused on subject matter that is specific to the field of dental hygiene. Visit our
Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene) (S305) page
for more info.
For information on future study options, see the
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
BIOL 1024
Human Anatomy and Physiology I
BIOL 1034
Microbiology and Infection Control
DENT 1060
Dental Hygiene Principles I
DENT 1093
Dental Anatomy for the Dental Hygienist
DENT 1166
Dental Hygiene Pre-Clinic (full-year course)
DENT 1126
Dental Radiography I for the Dental Hygienist
DENT 1124
Introduction to the Profession of Dental Hygiene
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication (if necessary)
or
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
ANAT 1058
Head/Neck Anatomy for Dental Hygienist
DENT 1061
Dental Hygiene Principles II
DENT 1127
Dental Radiography II for the Dental Hygienist
DENT 1066
Dental Materials
DENT 1129
Oral Histology and Embryology
BIOL 1044
Human Anatomy and Physiology II
DENT 1166
Dental Hygiene Pre-Clinic (full-year course)
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
DENT 2061
Introduction to Periodontics
DENT 2062
Clinic I
DENT 2063
Dental Hygiene Principles III
PHAR 2005
Pathophysiology and Pharmacology I
HLTH 2060
Introduction to Community Health
DENT 2060
Introduction to Research Methods
DENT 2064
Preventive Dentistry
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
DENT 2031
Oral Pathology for the Dental Hygienist
DENT 2071
Advanced Periodontics
DENT 2072
Clinic II
DENT 2073
Dental Hygiene Principles IV
DENT 2074
Oral Health Care Access the Lifespan
HLTH 2070
Health Promotion
PHAR 2010
Pathophysiology and Pharmacology II
ISHU 1035
Indigenous Studies
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
DENT 3031
Community Field Practicum (full-year course)
DENT 3032
Clinic III
DENT 3033
Ethics and Jurisprudence
DENT 3034
Dental Hygiene Practice Management
DENT 3035
Evidence-Based Practice
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
DENT 3042
Clinic IV
DENT 3043
Workplace Readiness
DENT 3044
Health Policy
DENT 3045
Orthodontics for the Dental Hygienist
DENT 3030
Comprehensive Case Studies in Dental Hygiene
DENT 3031
Community Field Practicum (full-year course)
Please note that Dental Hygiene is a full-time program. Classes may be scheduled Monday to Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.
General Education Electives
Electives
* Additional electives need to be taken throughout the program.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Practise in a professional and competent manner within the defined scope of practice and consistent with current regulations and standards of practice.
Evaluate clients’ oral health status using determinants of health and risk analysis to identify needs, justify treatment decisions and provide appropriate referrals to other health-care professionals as required.
Design, implement and evaluate a range of primary, interceptive, therapeutic, preventative and ongoing oral health-care services to meet the unique needs of clients.
Analyze oral health issues in need of advocacy, identify networks and promote actions that will support change and facilitate access to care.
Identify, select, implement and evaluate quality assurance standards and protocols which contribute to a safe and effective working environment.
Establish and maintain professional and interprofessional relationships that contribute to client care safety and positive health-care outcomes.
Facilitate the development of specific oral health attitudes, knowledge, skills and behaviours in clients by selecting and utilizing principles of teaching and learning.
Develop and present a model for a DH practice that addresses relevant business principles, current legislation and standards of practice.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$17,080.00 * †
International Tuition
$36,137.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
†
There will be additional costs to the program in each year of study, including textbooks, appropriate laboratory/clinical attire and personal protective equipment. There is a minimal fee charged to the student for equipment on loan during the academic year.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U) – A grade of 70 per cent or higher is required.
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U) – a grade of 60 per cent or higher is required.
grade 11 Biology (C or U) or Grade 12 (U) – a grade of 70 per cent or higher is required.
grade 11 Chemistry or physics (U) or grade 12 Chemistry or Physics (C or U) – a grade of 60 per cent or higher is required.
Please note: Mature applicants are eligible to test for English only.
Please note: Subject to competition, applicants may be required to have grades above the minimum stated.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
,
Math
or
Science
.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form requirements and program policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 10 to 12 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records (
such as TDAP shot, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres and Two-Step TB Skin Test), proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year,
Basic Life Support certificate
renewed every year, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the program specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination is highly recommended for oral health care workers and those working with vulnerable populations, hospitals, long term care facilities and some community agencies continue to require COVID-19 vaccines for placements.  Students who are
not
vaccinated may not be able to attend external clinical or field placements. As a result, this may pose a risk of meeting the requirements for program completion. The onsite WAVE (Wellness, Applied Learning, Visionary, Education) dental clinic will not require vaccination but it is highly recommended. Use of PPE will be required in all onsite clinics.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a
Vulnerable Sector Check
completed, and this check must be renewed every year before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Vulnerable Sector Check will not be able to start their field or clinical placement and will therefore be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program. Our agency partners have the final decision for students being allowed to practice in their agency.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Contact
sdhprograms@georgebrown.ca
for information about the Dental Hygiene Program.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) (S113)
Restorative Dental Hygiene (Postgraduate) (S400)
Honours Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene) (S305)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.