Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) Program (S113)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Dental Assisting (Levels I and II)
Code:
S113
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters), September to June
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$7,143.00 * †
International Tuition:
$21,380.00 ** †
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Dental Health
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
On-site and off-site field education opportunities.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Dental Technology (S100)
Denturism (S101)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing students to work as dental assistants for 25 years.
Program Overview
The
Dental Assisting
program provides the education required to work as a certified dental assistant (Levels I and II). As a student in this program, you will develop the skills, technical knowledge and clinical experience necessary to work in a professional, ethical and collaborative manner in a variety of settings.
Full Description
The one-year
Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) (S113)
certificate program
will prepare you to become a valued collaborative member of the oral health-care team. You will develop competencies related to clinical assisting, oral health education and business administration consistent with national and provincial standards.
This program is accredited by the
Commission on Dental Accreditation of Canada.
Dental assistants promote:
direct client care
oral health education
business administration
As a student in the program, you will develop experience in:
intra-oral skills
digital intra-oral imaging
laboratory procedures
infection prevention and control protocols
safety protocols
business skills
Learning takes place alongside students enrolled in the
Restorative Dental Hygiene program
.
Upon completion of the program, graduates are eligible to apply to write the
National  Dental Assisting Examining Board (NDAEB)
examination. (Note: Additional fees apply.) Upon successful completion of the examination, candidates are eligible to apply for certification with the
Ontario Dental Assistants Association
to work as a Level II dental assistant in the province of Ontario. See
odaa.org
for further information about how to become certified as a Level II dental assistant in Ontario.
Interested in this program but need more competitive marks? Consider enrolling in the
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109) program
.
This program will help you develop new and strengthen existing skills in math, biology, chemistry, physics, and communication.
PLEASE NOTE: While successful graduates of the (A109) program will be eligible to apply to this advanced diploma, it does not guarantee entry into this program.
Your Field Education Options
This Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) program offers both on-site and off-site field education opportunities.
In semester 1, the curriculum is focused on building the core skills of a dental assistant while working with mannequins in our on-site, state-of-the-art
WAVE Dental Clinic
and dental laboratories.
In semester 2, you will build on this foundation by practising on each other and alongside students from the
Restorative Dental Hygiene program
. You will then progress to practise your consolidated skills with real patients both in the
WAVE Clinic
and off-site in the community. Typical field education sites include private dental practices, public health units and teaching hospitals.
As we support interprofessional educational opportunities, you will have the chance to collaborate with one of our
12 George Brown College Child Care Centres,
where you will teach oral health education to the children, students and staff at a centre as scheduling permits.
PLEASE NOTE:
Off-site travel may be required. Clinical hours include early mornings that can extend into the evening.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) program are eligible to take the
National Dental Assisting Examining Board (NDAEB) examination
. (Note: additional fees apply.) Upon successful completion of the exam, candidates are eligible to apply for certification with the
Ontario Dental Assistants Association
to work as a Level II Dental Assistant in Ontario. Visit the
Ontario Dental Assistants Association website
for additional information about how to become certified as a Level II Dental Assistant in Ontario.
Graduates find employment in:
general and specialty private dental practices
public health units
hospital dental clinics
dental industry
armed forces
insurance companies
Educational Pathways
Graduates of this Dental Assisting (Levels I and II) program may apply in the future to other dental programs at George Brown College but must meet the minimum admission requirements for each of the following programs:
Denturism (S101)
Dental Technology (S100)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Graduates are not given priority admissions based on successful completion of the Dental Assisting program but may be eligible for some course exemptions.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
DENT 1047
Dental Radiography I
DENT 1137
Infection Prevention & Control for Dental Assisting
DENT 1143
Introduction to the Dental Assisting Profession
DENT 1147
Dental Sciences I
DENT 1149
Dental Materials Theory I
DENT 1152
Clinical Foundations Theory I
DENT 1153
Oral Health & Prevention I
DENT 1154
Clinical Foundations Practical I
DENT 1155
Laboratory Procedures I
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication (if necessary)
Or
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
DENT 1049
Business Office Skills
DENT 1051
Dental Radiography II
DENT 1148
Dental Assisting Consolidation
DENT 1156
Patient Management
DENT 1157
Preparation for Community Placement
DENT 2147
Dental Sciences II
DENT 2149
Dental Materials Theory II
DENT 2152
Clinical Foundation Theory II
DENT 2153
Oral Health & Prevention II
DENT 2154
Clinical Foundations Practical II
DENT 2155
Laboratory Procedures II
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
Please note that Dental Assisting is a full-time program. Classes may be scheduled from 7:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Monday to Friday. Students are expected to be on campus Monday to Friday, with the exception of some courses that may have a blended virtual delivery, students should expect to be on campus at least four days out of the week.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Maintain client and personal safety in the practice environment.
Contribute to the development of a comprehensive client profile by using a variety of data-collection methods in collaboration with the client and other health professionals and in compliance with privacy legislation.
Contribute to the development of a comprehensive plan for oral health services and programs in collaboration with the client and other health professionals.
Provide oral health services and programs, as identified in the comprehensive plan and as permitted within the scope of practice.
Contribute to the evaluation and reporting of appropriate aspects of the oral health services and program by using a variety of sources, including the client profile.
Act in a professional and competent manner.
Maintain client records and manage office procedures in compliance with relevant legislation and regulations.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,143.00 * †
International Tuition
$21,380.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
†
There will be additional costs to the program, including course manuals, appropriate laboratory/clinical attire and personal protective equipment that are not included in the tuition.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and the selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U) – A grade of 60 per cent or higher is required
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U) – a grade of 60 per cent or higher is required
grade 11 Biology (C or U) or grade 12 (U) – a grade of 60 per cent or higher is required
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, Math or Science, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
,
Math
or
Science
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form requirements and program policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 10 to 12 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as TDAP shot, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres and Two-Step TB Skin Test), proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year
,
Basic Life Support certificate
renewed every year, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the program specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination is highly recommended for oral health care workers and those working with vulnerable populations, hospitals, long term care facilities and some community agencies continue to require COVID-19 vaccines for placements.  Students who are
not
vaccinated may not be able to attend external clinical or field placements. As a result, this may pose a risk of meeting the requirements for program completion. The onsite WAVE (Wellness, Applied Learning, Visionary, Education) dental clinic will not require vaccination but it is highly recommended. Use of PPE will be required in all onsite clinics.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our on-site clinic and our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a vulnerable sector check completed, and this check must be renewed every year before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months.
This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered "vulnerable persons" under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for "individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s)”.
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a "clear" Vulnerable Sector Check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a "not clear" status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Contact 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 or E-mail
sdhprograms@georgebrown.ca
for program information.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Dental Technology (S100)
Denturism (S101)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.