Early Childhood Education Program (Accelerated) (C160)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Early Childhood Education
Code:
C160
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
16 months continuous with Summer classes (4 consecutive semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,811.00 *
International Tuition:
$26,767.00 **
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Early Childhood
Location:
George Brown College at Toronto Metropolitan University Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Placement
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Early Childhood Education (C100)
Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) (C130)
Early Childhood Education (Consecutive Diploma/Degree) (C118)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
George Brown College has been preparing graduates to work as Early Childhood Educators for more than 40 years.
Program Overview
Get ready for a rewarding career working with children from six weeks to 12 years of age in a variety of early childhood education settings with the
Early Childhood Education (Accelerated)
program—a condensed, 16-month version of our two-year diploma program.
Full Description
Students in the Early Childhood Education (Accelerated) program study from September 2024 to December 2025 with no breaks in between.
Earn an Early Childhood Education (ECE) diploma in 16 months with the
Early Childhood Education (Accelerated) (C160)
program. This continuous diploma program provides the theory and practical experience to support children's learning as they grow. Study the developmental stages of infants (from six weeks), toddlers, preschoolers, and school-age children (to 12 years) and learn how to design educational programming and respond to a child's unique needs and interests.
You will also engage with families and the broader community.
This program alternates between in-class learning and field placement to help you develop confidence in your skills as you progressively apply concepts from the classroom to a real-world setting. This prepares graduates to hit the ground running as soon as they enter the workforce.
Please note:
Some field placement partners may require students to show proof of full vaccination against COVID-19 (a person is considered fully vaccinated 14 days after the second dose). As such, students not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may be unable to complete their program's required field placement component in the regularly scheduled time frame.
FAST-TRACK – DIRECT ENTRY (10 MONTHS)
You may qualify for the fast-track program if you have a diploma or degree in a related field. For details, visit the
Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) (C130) program page
.
Your Field Education Options
Field placement plays an important role in this accelerated ECE diploma program as it provides a continuum of experience that gives students the opportunity to build on their learning as they develop skills and progress through the program.
We approach teaching and learning in this program by alternating blocks of classroom theory with field practice. Providing regular intervals for students to apply the theoretical knowledge they are learning with practical, hands-on experience helps you build effective skills as an ECE practitioner and as a leader. Employers value this approach because it prepares our graduates to work as early childhood educators on day one.
Students complete a seven-week field placement in each semester of the program. During this time, students have the opportunity to work with children of different age groups in a variety of settings.
To support student learning outcomes and ensure you have access to facilities that model the best practices we consider essential, we own and operate Ontario's largest network of school-run child care centres that serve over 1,000 children and their families each year. These
12 child care centres,
located across Toronto, will expose you to the kinds of environments where you will eventually work and provide valuable services to the families and communities that they serve.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this ECE Diploma program may find employment in:
child care centres
early years centres
full-day kindergarten
parent resource centres
pediatric playrooms
special education settings
integrated kindergartens
therapeutic nursery programs
in-home care
Industry
Successful completion of this ECE (Accelerated) diploma program will make you eligible for entrance to Ontario's
College of Early Childhood Educators
as a Registered Early Childhood Educator.
George Brown ECE graduates will:
learn to design curriculum for child-centred, play-based learning
support children’s learning and development by responding to their unique needs and interests
build caring relationships with children, families and communities
create safe, healthy and inclusive early learning environments
Educational Pathways
Students who complete George Brown's Early Childhood Education diploma program with a GPA of 2.50 or higher may apply to complete the bridge courses for entry into the third year of our
Honours Bachelor of Early Childhood (Degree Completion) program
.
Your George Brown Early Childhood Education diploma will also give you credit toward degree programs at other institutions.
For information on future study options, see the
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
ECE 1000
Professional Development Workshop 1
ECE 1024
Field Placement 1
ECE 1069
Health, Safety and Nutrition
ECE 1070
Interpersonal Communication
ECE 1075
Foundations of ECE
ECE 1181
Integrated Seminar 1
ECE 2045
Applied Curriculum
PSY 1075
Infant and Child Development
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
ECE 1026
Field Practice II
ECE 1069
Health, Safety and Nutrition
ECE 1070
Interpersonal Communication
ECE 1075
Foundations of ECE
ECE 1089
Observation, Planning and Evaluation
ECE 1095
Anti Racism in the Early Years
ECE 1182
Integrated Seminar II
ECE 2045
Applied Curriculum
PSY 1075
Infant and Child Development
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
ECE 1080
Professional Development Workshop 2
ECE 1183
Integrated Seminar III
ECE 2014
Field Practice III
ECE 2048
Policy, Advocacy, and Legislation
ECE 2049
Inclusion in Early Childhood
ECE 2050
Working with Families
ECE 2053
Curriculum Theory
ECE 2056
Creative Curriculum
ECE 2061
Social Policy in the Early Years
GSSC 1064
Introduction to Sociology
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
ECE 1184
Integrated Seminar IV
ECE 2017
Field Practice IV
ECE 2048
Policy, Advocacy, and Legislation
ECE 2049
Inclusion in Early Childhood
ECE 2050
Working with Families
ECE 2053
Curriculum Theory
ECE 2057
Current Issues
GNED
General Education Elective
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Create learning contexts to enable, build and maintain caring, responsive relationships in partnerships with children, families and communities that value and respect social, cultural and linguistic diversity, including Indigenous peoples' world views and Francophone identity.
Co-create, facilitate and reflect upon inquiry and play-based early years and child care programs and pedagogical approaches to support children's learning, holistic development and well-being following children's capabilities, interests, ideas and experiences.
Co-design and maintain inclusive early-learning environments to value and support equitable, accessible and meaningful learning opportunities for all children, their families and communities in a range of early years and child care settings.
Collaborate with children, families, colleagues, agencies and community partners to create, maintain, evaluate and promote safe and healthy early-learning environments to support independence, reasonable risk-taking and healthy development and well-being.
Use observation strategies to identify children's strengths and challenges and to ascertain when children and families might benefit from additional support or community resources.
Use professional communication in interactions with children, families, colleagues, employers, the regulatory body, government authorities and children's service agencies to meet legal and ethical standards of the early years sector.
Act in accordance with relevant legislation, regulations, College of Early Childhood Educators Code of Ethics and Standards of Practice, agency policies and procedures and principles of evidence-informed practice and reflect upon their impact on one's own role in early years and child care settings.
Identify, report and document when a child is in a situation of perceived risk for, or actual neglect or abuse, in accordance with legislation, the College of Early Childhood Educators Code of Ethics and Standards of Practice, policies and procedures.
Create and engage in partnerships with families, communities, colleagues, interdisciplinary professionals, authorities and child service agencies to advocate for quality early years and child care programs and services.
Engage in reflective practice and continuous professional learning in accordance with principles of lifelong learning, evidence-informed practices in the early years sector and requirements of the College of Early Childhood Educators.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,811.00 *
International Tuition
$26,767.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS PROGRAM IS DELIVERED IN CONSECUTIVE SEMESTERS, WITH NO BREAK. STUDENTS WILL BE IN CLASS FROM SEPTEMBER 2024 TO
DECEMBER 2025.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U) PLUS any additional (3) grade 12 C, U, M or grade 11 C, U or M credits
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions
page for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Field placement is a mandatory and complex component of the program. Should accommodation issues arise, an Accessible Learning Consultant may be called upon to assist the applicant in determining whether she/he can meet the requirements necessary for safe caregiving for young children.
In compliance with requests from our student placement partners and requirements from Public Health and Ontario legislation, all students in this program must have completed the following prior to beginning field placement:
standard first aid with CPR level C course
police vulnerable sector check
medical clearance
Students who are unable to provide completed field clearance documents may be unable to complete their field placement and, therefore, will be unable to complete the program.
For more information on the ECE field placement requirements, please email
ece@georgebrown.ca
.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Early Childhood
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2310
Email:
ece@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Early Childhood Education (C100)
Early Childhood Education (Fast-Track) (C130)
Early Childhood Education (Consecutive Diploma/Degree) (C118)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.