Electromechanical Engineering Technology - Power and Control Program (T182)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Electromechanical Engineering Technology - Power and Control
Code:
T182
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,980.00 * †
International Tuition:
$18,307.00 ** †
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation (T171)
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Gain expertise in advanced power and control systems in the three-year
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Power and Control
advanced diploma program. Developed in collaboration with Toronto Hydro, this program combines theoretical and practical experience, enabling you to work in a wide variety of electrical engineering areas, including power and control systems, utilities, industrial automation and robotics, instrumentation, and process control. The curriculum incorporates theory, applications, practical experience, and safety practices from power systems, utilities, manufacturing, control system, automation, and computer industries. You'll also learn about a variety of concepts from the sciences and humanities to boost your knowledge.
Full Description
After completing the three-year
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Power and Control
advanced diploma program, you'll be ready to meet the rapidly changing demands of industrial environments and advanced manufacturing industries. You'll become an expert in installing, operating, maintaining, and troubleshooting high-tech automated equipment.
In the first two years, you'll gain experience with both power and control systems, including electric motors, controls, PLCs, generators, transformers, electrical CAD, and electrical safety code. In the third year, you'll continue with courses in advanced power and control systems, including electrical installations, power transmission and distribution, power quality, electrical protection and control, project management, automation systems, and control applications.
Your Field Education Options
Students will complete two mandatory co-op semesters.
The first co-op experience takes place between semesters 4 and 5. The second co-op experience takes place between semesters 5 and 6.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
As a graduate of this program, you'll perform technological functions related to:
power and control systems
energy
robotics and automation
manufacturing
processing
computer industries
Your work will primarily support research, technology installation, problem-solving, product development, and design at a recognized technologist level.
Industry
As technology continues to evolve at an unprecedented pace, graduates will be in high demand for their cross-disciplinary skills in types of environments including:
utilities
power generation and distribution
robotics and automation
computer industry
manufacturing industry
renewable energy
Educational Pathways
Other opportunities can be explored through the Transfer Guide at
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
EMNG 1001
Circuit Analysis
MENG 1044
Introduction to Mechanical Engineering Design
MENG 1045
Machining Fundamentals and Metrology
MENG 1088
Occupational Health and Safety
GSSC 1027
Personal Finance
MATH 1160
Mathematics for Engineering Technology 1
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
ELCL 1047
Residential Prints and Electrical Safety Code 1
EMNG 1013
Electronic Devices
EMNG 1015
Motors and Controls
EMNG 1020
Computers and Microprocessors
EMNG 1021
CAD Electrical Circuits
MATH 1171
Mathematics for Engineering Technology 2
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
EMNG 2001
Introduction to PLC Systems
EMNG 2004
Digital Electronics
EMNG 2007
DC Circuit Fundamentals
EMNG 2020
Instrumentation 1
EMNG 2035
CAD Electrical Layouts
EMNG 2036
Computer Applications
EMNG 2040
Workplace Preparedness and Technical Writing
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
CIVL 3028
Introduction to GIS Technology
EMNG 2037
Programming Principles
EMNG 2041
Robotics
EMNG 2043
AC Circuit Fundamentals
EMNG 2042
Co-op Preparation
EMNG 3003
Network Fundamentals
GNED
General Education Elective
CO-OP SEMESTER
Code
Course Name
TCOP 1007
Co-op Work Term 1
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
ELCL 1048
Electrical Installation Methods 1
ELCL 1051
Electrical and Workplace Safety
ELCL 1057
Residential Prints and Electrical Safety Code 2
EMNG 3024
Advanced CAD (Revit)
EMNG 3025
Power Transmission and Distribution
MENG 2046
Sustainable Energy Technologies
MATH 2015
Calculus 1
CO-OP SEMESTER
Code
Course Name
TCOP2007
Co-op Work Term 2
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
ELCL 1058
Electrical Installation Methods 2
EMNG 3027
Electrical Maintenance Management
EMNG 3028
Power Quality and Distribution
EMNG 3029
Electrical Protection and Control
EMNG 3030
Project Management Practices
MATH 3006
Calculus 2
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 Introduction to College Communication does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Fabricate and build electrical, electronic and mechanical components and assemblies in accordance with operating standards, job requirements and specifications.
Analyze, interpret and produce electrical, electronic and mechanical drawings and other related technical documents and graphics necessary for electromechanical design in compliance with industry standards.
Select and use a variety of troubleshooting techniques and equipment to assess, modify, maintain and repair electromechanical circuits, equipment, processes, systems and subsystems.
Modify, maintain and repair electrical, electronic and mechanical components, equipment and systems to ensure that they function according to specifications and to optimize production.
Design and analyze mechanical components, processes and systems by applying engineering principles and practices.
Design, analyze, build, select, commission, integrate and troubleshoot a variety of industrial motor controls and data acquisition devices and systems, digital circuits, passive AC and DC circuits, active circuits and microprocessor-based systems.
Install and troubleshoot computer hardware and programming to support the electromechanical engineering environment.
Analyze, program, install, integrate, troubleshoot and diagnose automated systems, including robotic systems.
Establish and maintain inventory, records and documentation systems to meet organizational and industry standards and requirements.
Select and purchase electromechanical equipment, components and systems that fulfill job requirements and functional specifications.
Specify, coordinate and apply quality-control and quality-assurance programs and procedures to meet organizational standards and requirements.
Work in compliance with relevant industry standards, laws and regulations, codes, policies and procedures.
Develop strategies for ongoing personal and professional development to enhance work performance and to remain current in the field and responsive to emergent technologies and national and international standards.
Contribute as an individual and a member of an electromechanical engineering team to the effective completion of tasks and projects.
Design and analyze electromechanical systems by interpreting fluid mechanics and the attributes and dynamics of fluid flow used in hydraulic and fluid power systems.
Contribute to project management through planning, implementation and evaluation of projects, and monitoring of resources, timelines and expenditures as required.
Configure installation and apply electrical cabling requirements and system grounding and bonding requirements for a variety of power systems under the supervision of a qualified person.
Design, commission, test and troubleshoot electrical power systems under the supervision of a qualified person.
Select and recommend power and control equipment, systems and components to fulfill the requirements and specifications under the supervision of a qualified person.
Apply systems analysis tools, in the management of power and control systems, to address challenges in sustainability and efficiency in order to minimize waste.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,980.00 * †
International Tuition
$18,307.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
† Students are responsible for purchasing CSA standard safety shoes for their protection when working in the laboratories.
CSA safety glasses are provided, but students who wish to use prescription safety glasses will be responsible for purchasing those separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
**MATURE STUDENT STATUS (19 YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER AND NO OSSD)
Mature students may take the Admissions Assessment for English and Math or may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in English and Math.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4365
Email:
engineeringtech@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room D305
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
VISIT OUR CAMPUS
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation (T171)
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.