Electrical Techniques Program (T167)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Electrical Techniques
Code:
T167
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$ 5,181.00 *
International Tuition:
$ 18,054.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Apprenticeship & Skilled Trades
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Open
Opens Aug 6, 2024
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Construction Techniques (T176)
Plumbing Techniques (T165)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Click here to check availability for Spring 2024
This 1-year program is eligible for
a $20,000 scholarship.
*
The
Electrical Techniques
one-year certificate program builds your working knowledge of electricity and electronics in relation to residential and commercial electrician applications. You'll develop skills and competencies in electrical theory, network cabling, electrical system installation, and electrical workplace safety.
*Domestic students only — see page for details.
Full Description
The one-year
Electrical Techniques
certificate program covers installation, testing, maintenance, analysis, and troubleshooting of electrical circuits, equipment, and systems under the supervision of a qualified person. You'll learn to apply health and safety standards to your work, and perform tasks under the standards of the Canadian Electrical Code.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of the program bring a wide range of skills to future employers. This program increases your marketability and knowledge of the electrical industry. You may also be interested in continuing on to a two-year or three-year program at George Brown College.
Check out some of our other
Skilled Trade Programs
.
Industry
The construction industry is one of the country’s largest employers, and skilled trades workers are among the highest paid and most in demand in Canada.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
ELCL 1047
Residential Prints and Electrical Safety Code 1
ELCL 1048
Electrical Installation Methods 1
ELCL 1049
Electrical Theory 1
ELCL 1050
Instrumentation 1
ELCL 1051
Electrical and Workplace Safety
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
ELCL 1057
Residential Prints and Electrical Safety Code 2
ELCL 1058
Electrical Installation Methods 2
ELCL 1059
Electrical Theory 2
ELCL 1060
Instrumentation 2
ELCL 1061
Electronics
PORT 1001
Portfolio
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Assist in the interpretation and preparation of electrical drawings, including other related documents and graphics.
Analyze and solve simple technical problems related to basic electrical systems by applying mathematics and science principles.
Use and maintain test and instrumentation equipment.
Assemble basic electrical circuits and equipment to fulfill requirements and specifications under the supervision of a qualified person.
Assist in the installation and troubleshooting of basic electrical machines and associated control systems under the supervision of a qualified person.
Assist in testing and troubleshooting electrical and electronic circuits, equipment and systems by using established procedures under the supervision of a qualified person.
Assist in the troubleshooting of control systems under the supervision of a qualified person.
Use computer skills and tools to solve basic electrical-related problems.
Assist in conducting quality assurance procedures under the supervision of a qualified person.
Assist in the preparation and maintenance of records and documentation systems.
Install and assist in testing telecommunication systems under the supervision of a qualified person.
Apply health and safety standards and best practices to workplaces.
Perform tasks in accordance with relevant legislation, policies, procedures, standards, regulations and ethical principles.
Apply basic electrical cabling requirements and install and test system grounding for a specified number of applications under the supervision of a qualified person.
Identify problems and troubleshoot electrical systems under the supervision of a qualified person.
Assist in the selection of electrical equipment, systems and components to fulfill the requirements and specifications under the supervision of a qualified person.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$ 5,181.00 *
International Tuition
$ 18,054.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature Students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
Math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Apprenticeship and Skilled Trades
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 6711
Email:
skilledtrades@georgebrown.ca
Room: Casa Loma Campus, Room E308
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Construction Techniques (T176)
Plumbing Techniques (T165)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.