Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation Program (T171)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation
Code:
T171
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,312.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,361.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Available
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Building automation is an emerging and growing career opportunity, especially in construction and property development. In the three-year
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation
advanced diploma program, we'll give you the skills and knowledge you need for building science, building automation systems, networking and project management, and green building.
Builders and property managers require skilled workers to design and integrate building control systems such as lighting, telephony, security, Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC), Heating Ventilation and Air-Conditioning (HVAC), air quality, energy consumption, and fire and safety. They need technologists familiar with a centralized approach, who can manage and control a building from an interface that provides building-wide efficiency, cost-effective operations, and information-sharing.
As a graduate of this program, you'll be ready for a career in industrial/manufacturing and will have the much-desired skills needed for construction and property development.
Full Description
The
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation
three-year advanced diploma program provides you with the technical skills you need to succeed in the job market.
Building automation systems don't just control the basics: they regulate airflow, monitor energy use, and integrate with security, lighting, and other building systems to deliver comfort, safety, energy efficiency, and sustainability. With buildings becoming more complex, they differ in usage, size, operating hours, and environmental conditions. Whether it's offices, homes, hotels, schools, or other structures, each has its unique needs. The key to optimal building services technology lies in proper system design and integration throughout the planning, construction, commissioning, and operational phases.
In this program, you'll learn to:
install, program, adjust, and maintain building automation systems
program and install sensors, actuators, and controllers
collect data for use in real-time or for archiving in a central server
work with building software platforms that interconnect different systems
You'll gain a diverse set of skills and abilities that will also prepare you for "green" careers focused on energy efficiency, renewable energy, and the environment. This type of skill set is in high-demand for both the construction industry, and the controls and automation industry.
INDUSTRY SKILLS
Safety practices in the installation and troubleshooting of HVAC/R systems, including applicable codes and standards of the NEC, ASHRAE, OSHA, EPA, and other regulatory bodies.
Basic HVAC/R processes and the function, layout, and operation of commercial HVAC/R systems.
Functions, operating characteristics and applications of the control loops and control modes in digital, analog, and pneumatic commercial control systems.
Blueprints and manufacturer’s technical instructions for installing or servicing a sensor, controller, actuator, and related relays and power supplies.
General-purpose software and specific building automation software that monitors and controls HVAC/R and electrical systems.
Various BAS controls and systems, including DCS, PLC, PAC, and SCADA.
Functions of network devices and protocols, such as a bridge, router, gateway, hub, firewall, twisted pair, Ethernet, TCP/IP, Zigbee, WiFi, BAS/IP, and BACnet.
Emerging green technologies, such as solar, wind, and hydronic, and how they integrate into building systems and residential applications.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
After graduating from this program, you'll be able to work in the building automation industry in areas such as:
electronics companies
general contractors
communication and information systems companies
lighting suppliers and contractors
mechanical and electronic controller manufacturers
facilities management companies
automotive companies and suppliers
robotics and automation companies
residential developers
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
EMNG 1001
Circuit Analysis
MENG 1044
Introduction to Mechanical Engineering Design
MENG 1045
Machining Fundamentals and Metrology
MENG 1088
Occupational Health and Safety
GSSC 1027
Personal Finance
MATH 1160
Mathematics for Engineering Technology 1
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
EMNG 1003
Engineering Physics
EMNG 1013
Electronic Devices
EMNG 1016
Electro-Pneumatics
EMNG 2025
Electrical Techniques
MATH 1171
Mathematics for Engineering Technology 2
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
EMNG 2001
Introduction to PLC Systems
EMNG 2004
Digital Electronics
EMNG 2006
Operations Management & Quality Control
EMNG 2020
Sensors and Instrumentation
EMNG 2021
Automation Software Development
EMNG 3020
Blueprint Reading for Buildings
GNED
General Education Elective (Select One)
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
EMNG 2022
Instrumentation 2
EMNG 2024
Internet of Things for Homes
EMNG 3003
Network Fundamentals
EMNG 3010
Advanced PLC Systems
MENG 2046
Sustainable Energy Technologies
MENG 3006
Thermodynamics
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
EMNG 2026
Applied Project 1
EMNG 3002
Building Science Fundamentals
EMNG 3004
Building Networks and Protocols
EMNG 3006
Alarm and Video Systems
EMNG 3015
Building Control Systems
EMNG 3016
Fundamentals of HVAC/R Systems
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
EMNG 2040
Workplace Preparedness and Technical Writing
EMNG 3011
Building Management and Commissioning
EMNG 3013
Building Sub-Systems and Integration
EMNG 3018
Applied Project 2
EMNG 3019
Building Operations and Management
EMNG 3021
Connected Homes
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Fabricate and build electrical, electronic and mechanical components and assemblies in accordance with operating standards, job requirements and specifications.
Analyze, interpret and produce electrical, electronic and mechanical drawings and other related technical documents and graphics necessary for electromechanical design in compliance with industry standards.
Select and use a variety of troubleshooting techniques and equipment to assess, modify, maintain and repair electromechanical circuits, equipment, processes, systems and subsystems.
Modify, maintain, and repair electrical, electronic and mechanical components, equipment, and systems to ensure that they function according to specifications and to optimize production.
Design and analyze mechanical components, processes and systems by applying engineering principles and practices.
Design, analyze, build, select, commission, integrate and troubleshoot a variety of industrial motor controls and data acquisition devices and systems, digital circuits, passive AC and DC circuits, active circuits and microprocessor-based systems.
Install and troubleshoot computer hardware and programming to support the electromechanical engineering environment.
Analyze, program, install, integrate, troubleshoot and diagnose automated systems including robotic systems.
Establish and maintain inventory, records and documentation systems to meet organizational and industry standards and requirements.
Select and purchase electromechanical equipment, components and systems that fulfill job requirements and functional specifications.
Specify, coordinate and apply quality-control and quality-assurance programs and procedures to meet organizational standards and requirements.
Work in compliance with relevant industry standards, laws and regulations, codes, policies and procedures.
Develop strategies for ongoing personal and professional development to enhance work performance and to remain current in the field and responsive to emergent technologies and national and international standards.
Contribute as an individual and a member of an electromechanical engineering team to the effective completion of tasks and projects.
Design and analyze electromechanical systems by interpreting fluid mechanics and the attributes and dynamics of fluid flow used in hydraulic and fluid power systems.
Contribute to project management through planning, implementation and evaluation of projects, and monitoring of resources, timelines and expenditures as required.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,312.00 *
International Tuition
$18,361.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Students are responsible for purchasing CSA standard safety shoes for their protection when working in the laboratories.
CSA Safety glasses are provided, but students who wish to use prescription safety glasses will be responsible for purchasing those separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
Math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4365
Email:
engineeringtech@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room D305
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.