Electronics Technician Program (Distance Education) (T901)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Electronics Technician
Code:
T901
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Part-time
Duration:
32 weeks (approximately)
Starting Months:
Open enrolment
Domestic Tuition:
$1,760.00*
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Not Available
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Winter
2025
Not Available
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Spring
2025
Not Available
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Electromechanical Technician (Distance Education) (T902)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program
does not qualify for study/work permit (including PGWP) eligibility in Canada.
This program focuses on the skills needed to assemble, install, troubleshoot and repair electronic equipment used by consumers, businesses and industry. Students learn electronics theory and how to work with circuits and the various components of electronic systems such as capacitors, resistors, semiconductors and amplifiers. The focus is on a broad understanding of the field that students can then apply to specific areas of interest or employment.
Full Description
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program
does not qualify for study/work permit (including PGWP) eligibility in Canada.
The Electronics Technician Certificate program presents a complete in-depth introduction to the fundamentals of applied electronics. It covers the basics, from series circuits to digital electronics. This program provides hundreds of practical laboratory experiments using two innovative simulation environments (3DLab and CircuitLogix) to demonstrate theory and showcase examples from industrial and manufacturing electronics.
The Electronics Technician Certificate allows students to learn at their own pace, studying, experimenting and taking final exams when it fits into their busy schedule. The program is presented in 24 modules, each containing text, animations, mini audio lectures, illustrations, review questions, online resources, over 450 pre-built lab projects and practice exams.
PREREQUISITES
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (with credits at or above general level) or equivalent or mature student status. An electronics background is helpful but not essential.
ADVANCED STANDING
If you have finished the Electromechanical Technician program, you are exempted from 18 modules of the Electronics Technician program.
Program Specific Computer Requirements
Minimum computer requirements
Intel Pentium-based equivalent Processor
2 GB RAM
500 MB of available disk space
Windows 7/ Windows 8/Windows 8.1/Windows 10/Windows 11
32 and 64 bit compatible
Email account
Internet access
Note: Our program software is strictly made for Windows Operating Systems and will therefore only run on Windows-based computers. It will
NOT
work on Apple computers running Mac Operating Systems such as Macbook, Chromebook computers running Chrome Operating Systems such as Google Pixelbook or any device running Linux Operating Systems.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates will be prepared to work as service technicians on electronic products and equipment used by consumers, businesses and industries. Typical activities include:
assembling
maintaining
testing
troubleshooting
repairing and upgrading equipment and systems
Educational Pathways
Credits from this program may be applied to the following:
Electronics Engineering Technician diploma program
offered by George Brown College
Bachelor of Science in Technology Management degree offered by
Indiana State University
(ISU)
Bachelor of Science degree offered by
Athabasca University
Bachelor of Science in Organizational Studies degree offered by
Neumann University
Courses
Required Courses
The modules should be taken in the following order.
COMPULSORY (24)
Code
Course Name
ELNC 9034
Introduction to Electronics
ELCL 9049
Current, Voltage and Resistance
ELCL 9050
Ohm’s Law, Power and Energy
ELCL 9048
Series Circuits
ELCL 9047
Parallel Circuits
ELCL 9046
Series-Parallel Circuits
ELNC 9036
DC Measuring Instruments
ELCL 9045
Network Theorems
ELCL 9044
Magnetism
ELCL 9043
Magnetic Circuits
ELCL 9042
Alternating Voltages and Currents
ELCL 9041
AC Measuring Instruments
ELCL 9040
Capacitance and Capacitors
ELCL 9039
Inductance and Inductors
ELNC 9033
Transformers
ELCL 9038
Alternating Current Circuits
ELNC 9032
Resonance
ELNC 9031
Coupling and Filter Circuits
ELNC 9030
Semiconductor Fundamentals
ELNC 9037
Transistors and Thyristors
ELNC 9029
Amplifier Circuits
ELNC 9028
Integrated Circuits
ELNC 9035
Digital Electronics
ELCL 9091
Microprocessors
Detailed course outline
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$1,760.00*
Additional Costs
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
There is no additional cost. Students can pay tuition in full or the pay-as-you-learn option as below.
Initial registration is $380 (includes all learning materials, laboratory simulation software and access to the Module 1 exam), and registration for each of the remaining 23 modules is $60/module. Students may register for one or more modules at any time. International applicants are charged the same fees but in U.S. dollars (US$380); the posted exchange rate in effect at the time of your registration will be used to determine the final fee in Canadian dollars. There is no refund on learning material.
*Amounts listed are the total of tuition and materials for the programs starting in fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in fall 2024 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
The academic prerequisite for students entering the Electronics Technician program is an Ontario Secondary School Diploma (with credits at or above general level) or equivalent or mature student status.
If you are 19 years or older and do not have a high school diploma, you may enrol as a mature student.
Special Requirements
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
How to Apply
Call 416-415-4726 or see
etcourse.com
.
Contact Us
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Call us at 416-415-4726, or toll-free 1-888-553-5333.
E-mail:
info@gbctechtraining.com
.
Check out the course details along with our interactive video tour at
etcourse.com.
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Electromechanical Technician (Distance Education) (T902)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.