Electric Vehicle (EV) Technician Program (T951)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Electric Vehicle (EV) Technician
Code:
T951
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Online
Duration:
32 weeks
Starting Months:
Open enrolment
Domestic Tuition:
$1,750.00*
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Continuous Open Enrollment
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Winter
2025
Continuous Open Enrollment
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Spring
2025
Continuous Open Enrollment
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Electric Vehicle (EV) Technician
training program addresses a global need for people who are skilled in diagnosing, servicing, and repairing high voltage EVs, and commercial charging stations.
You'll gain a comprehensive understanding of electrical vehicle circuits through a blend of theoretical and hands-on instruction. Our multimedia learning resources and cutting-edge electrical/electronics simulation software (CircuitLogix Pro) enable you to test, validate, and understand the complexities of circuits commonly found in EVs.
This program is highly beneficial to Automotive Service Technicians who have a strong background in internal combustion engine (ICE) powered vehicles, but lack the skills in power electronics and data communication systems to safely perform service-related work on EVs and Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEVs). This program is also relevant to electricians who will be installing, servicing, and maintaining residential and commercial EV charging stations.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS:
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Full Description
The 32-week
Electric Vehicle (EV) Technician
certificate program is structured into 14 modules, each containing around 10 major topics. Delivered in an asynchronous “on demand” format, this setup allows you to start and finish modules at your own pace.
A key feature of the program is the integration of theory and hands-on learning. Comprising 14 modules, our curriculum includes state-of-the-art simulation software with virtual lab/shop experiments, combined with videos, animations, and real-world practical examples to reinforce the fundamental concepts of EV technology. As a student in the program, you'll receive a licensed copy of CircuitLogix, which incorporates both 2D- and 3D-simulation.
While the typical program duration is around 32 weeks, there are no fixed schedules for completion. This flexibility allows you to progress through the course content at your own pace. Each module concludes with an online final exam.
Program Specific Computer Requirements
Minimum computer requirements
Intel Pentium-based equivalent Processor
2 GB RAM
500 MB of available disk space
Windows 7/ Windows 8/Windows 8.1/Windows 10/Windows 11
32 and 64 bit compatible
Email account
Internet access
Note: Our program software is strictly made for Windows Operating Systems and will therefore only run on Windows-based computers. It will
NOT
work on Apple computers running Mac Operating Systems such as Macbook, Chromebook computers running Chrome Operating Systems such as Google Pixelbook or any device running Linux Operating Systems.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
This program is right for you if:
You're an
Automotive Service Technician
with a strong background in internal combustion engine (ICE) powered vehicles, but lack the knowledge and skills in power electronics and data communication systems to safely perform service-related work on EVs and Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEVs).
You're an
Electrician
who will be installing, servicing, and maintaining residential and commercial EV charging stations.
You're interested in a career servicing, repairing, designing, or selling EVs.
Courses
Required Courses
Code
Course Name
EVTC9000
Introduction to EVs
EVTC9001
Basic Electricity
EVTC9002
Direct Current Circuits
EVTC9003
Alternating Current Circuit
EVTC9004
Power Electronics
EVTC9005
Batteries and Fuel Cells
EVTC9006
Battery Charging Systems
EVTC9007
DC Motors and Controls
EVTC9008
AC Motors and Controls
EVTC9009
Powertrains
EVTC9010
Sensors and Actuators
EVTC9011
Communication and Control Systems
EVTC9012
Safety, Maintenance, and Repairs
EVTC9013
Autonomous Vehicles
CLICK HERE FOR FULL COURSE OUTLINE DETAILS
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$1,750.00*
Additional Costs
THERE ARE NO ADDITIONAL COSTS. STUDENTS CAN PAY TUITION IN FULL OR CHOOSE THE PAY-AS-YOU-LEARN OPTION.
Initial registration is $580 (includes all learning materials, laboratory simulation software, and access to the Module 1 exam) and registration for each of the remaining 13 modules is $90/module. Students may register for one or more modules at any time. International applicants are charged the same fees, but in U.S. dollars (US$580); the posted exchange rate in effect at the time of your registration will be used to determine the final fee in Canadian dollars. There is no refund on learning material.
*Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition and materials for the programs starting in fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in fall 2024 and at later dates.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
The academic prerequisites for students entering into the Electric Vehicle Technician program is a high school diploma, with credits at or above the general level or equivalent mature student status. A background in electronics, electrical, or internal combustion engine (ICE) powered vehicles is helpful but not necessary.
If you are 19 years or older and do not have a high school diploma, you may enrol as a mature student.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Call us at 416-415-4726, or toll-free 1-888-553-5333.
E-mail
info@gbctechtraining.com
.
Check out the course details at
evtechnician.com
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.