Electromechanical Technician Program (Distance Education) (T902)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Electromechanical Technician
Code:
T902
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Part-time
Duration:
34 weeks (approximately)
Starting Months:
Open enrolment
Domestic Tuition:
$1,760.00*
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Not Available
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Winter
2025
Not Available
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Spring
2025
Not Available
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Electronics Technician (Distance Education) (T901)
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation (T171)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program
does not qualify for study/work permit (including PGWP) eligibility in Canada.
The Electromechanical Technician Certificate program provides a complete introduction to electronics and electromechanical systems. This program is often of interest to people who want to study electronics with an emphasis on mechanical systems, for example, someone coming from a millwright background. The program covers mechanical topics outside of a typical electronics program, like industrial control devices, DC and AC motors and control circuits, transformers, analog and digital transducers, industrial process control and PLCs.
ADVANCED STANDING
If you have finished the Electronics Technician program, you are exempted from 18 modules of the Electromechanical Technician program.
Full Description
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program
does not qualify for study/work permit (including PGWP) eligibility in Canada.
The Electromechanical Technician program provides a complete introduction to electronics and electromechanical systems and allows students to work and complete the program at their own pace. The Electromechanical Technician program is divided into 24 modules and, similar to the Electronics Technician Certificate program, contains text, animations, mini audio lectures, illustrations, review questions, over 450 pre-built lab projects and practice exams. Six modules extend its coverage into mechanical systems.
One of the main learning features of the Electromechanical Technician program is the complete integration of laboratory experiments and projects within the presentation of the electronics and electromechanical theory. This is accomplished through the introduction of circuit simulation software that simulates the behaviour of electronic circuits. Students who enrol in the program receive a licensed copy of CircuitLogix Pro, a leading commercially available simulator that includes 2D- and 3D-circuit simulation tools.
You may enrol any time during the year (open enrolment) and complete the modules in the learning package at your own speed. The typical completion time is 34 weeks, but there are no time limits.
PREREQUISITES
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (with credits at or above general level) or equivalent or mature student status.
ADVANCED STANDING
If you have finished the Electronics Technician program, you are exempted from 18 modules of the Electromechanical Technician program. You may also apply credits toward the PLC Technician program, the PLC Technician II program, the Robotics Technician program, the EV Technician program, and the Automation Technician program.
Program Specific Computer Requirements
Minimum computer requirements
Intel Pentium-based equivalent Processor
2 GB RAM
500 MB of available disk space
Windows 7/ Windows 8/Windows 8.1/Windows 10/Windows 11
32 and 64 bit compatible
Email account
Internet access
Note: Our program software is strictly made for Windows Operating Systems and will therefore only run on Windows-based computers. It will
NOT
work on Apple computers running Mac Operating Systems such as Macbook, Chromebook computers running Chrome Operating Systems such as Google Pixelbook or any device running Linux Operating Systems.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
The program prepares you to work with machines having complex hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, computer, programmable logic and electronic controls. The skills acquired through this program enable you to install and test this type of equipment, advise on its maintenance and provide solutions to technical problems related to control systems in general.
The training and knowledge you gain from this program enable you to work in fields such as industrial maintenance, design and installation, as well as technical services, technical sales and industrial research and development.
Courses
Required Courses
The modules should be taken in the following order:
COMPULSORY (24)
Code
Course Name
ELNC 9034
Introduction to Electronics
ELCL 9049
Current, Voltage and Resistance
ELCL 9050
Ohm’s Law, Power and Energy
ELCL 9048
Series Circuits
ELCL 9047
Parallel Circuits
ELCL 9046
Series-Parallel Circuits
ELNC 9036
DC Measuring Instruments
ELNC 9053
Industrial Control Devices
ELCL 9044
Magnetism
ELCL 9059
DC Motors and Control Circuits
ELCL 9042
Alternating Voltages and Currents
ELCL 9041
AC Measuring Instruments
ELCL 9040
Capacitance and Capacitors
ELCL 9039
Inductance and Inductors
ELNC 9033
Transformers
ELNC 9056
AC Motors and Drives
ELCL 9060
Analog and Digital Transducers
ELNC 9055
Industrial Process Control
ELNC 9030
Semiconductor Fundamentals
ELNC 9037
Transistors and Thyristors
ELNC 9029
Amplifier Circuits
ELNC 9028
Integrated Circuits
ELNC 9035
Digital Electronics
ELNC 9054
Programmable Logic Controllers
Detailed course outline
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$1,760.00*
Additional Costs
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
There is no additional cost. Students can pay tuition in full or pay-as-you-learn option as below.
Initial registration is $380 (includes all learning materials, laboratory simulation software and access to the Module 1 exam) and registration for each of the remaining 23 modules is $60/module. Students may register for one or more modules at any time. International applicants are charged the same fees but in U.S. dollars (US$380); the posted exchange rate in effect at the time of your registration will be used to determine the final fee in Canadian dollars. There is no refund on learning material.
*Amounts listed are the total of tuition and materials for the program starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
The academic prerequisite for students entering the Electromechanical Technician program is an Ontario Secondary School Diploma (with credits at or above general level) or equivalent or mature student status.
If you are 19 years or older and do not have a high school diploma, you may enrol as a mature student.
Special Requirements
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
How to Apply
Call 416-415-4726 or see
emcourse.com
.
Contact Us
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Call us at 416-415-4726, or toll-free at 1-888-553-5333.
Email:
info@gbctechtraining.com
.
Check out the course details along with our interactive video tour at
emcourse.com.
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Electronics Technician (Distance Education) (T901)
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation (T171)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.