Entrepreneurship Management Program (Postgraduate) (B416)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Entrepreneurship Management
Code:
B416
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
8 months (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,135.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,253.00 **
Centre:
Business
School:
Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Project Management (Postgraduate) (B415)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Calling all aspiring entrepreneurs! Want to launch or grow your small business? Our
Entrepreneurship Management
postgraduate program can help you get there. In just eight months, you'll learn everything you need to know about creating a full business plan, from research and marketing to financing and web strategy. Our faculty and community will support you every step of the way as you get ready to take your business to the next level.
Full Description
If you have an entrepreneurial spirit and dream of working for yourself, our
Entrepreneurship Management
postgraduate program might be the perfect fit to help you achieve your goals. During the program, you'll develop your business plan and get feedback from faculty, entrepreneurs, and fellow students, so by the end, you'll be ready to launch your business with a strong start.
George Brown College supports entrepreneurial spirit and offers resources to help you start your own business. Find out more about opportunities offered through the college’s entrepreneurship hub
startGBC
.
Here are some skills you'll be able to show off after completion of the Entrepreneurship Management postgraduate program:
Presenting a full business plan for your new business
Creating a financial plan that includes forecasting and cash flow
Identifying sources of funding
Developing a complete marketing plan
Creating a website that showcases your business
This
Centre for Business
program is part of our
School of Management
.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Educational Pathways
For information on future study options, see our
transfer guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
In order to graduate from the
B416 program
, you need to complete the following
10
mandatory courses:
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
Co-requisite
HRM 4002
Human Resources
NONE
LAW 4003
Legal Aspects of Entrepreneurship
NONE
MGMT 4042
Finance and Accounting for Entrepreneurs
NONE
MGMT 4043
Entrepreneurial Integrated Supply Chain Management
NONE
MARK 1042
Principles of Marketing
NONE
MGMT 4044
Business Research
NONE
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
MGMT 4045
Business Channel Strategies
NONE
MGMT 1036
Business Plan Creation
Successfully Completed Semester 1
MGMT 4046
Entrepreneurial Speaker Series
Successfully Completed Semester 1
MGMT 1028
Sales
MARK 1042
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Develop, present and analyze a comprehensive business plan adapted to the enterprise that adheres to professional standards and practices.
Assess and use current concepts/systems and technologies to support business initiatives.
Develop strategies for implementing effective marketing plans that reflect an analysis of relevant resources and practices of an enterprise.
Use accounting and financial principles to support the management and operations of an enterprise.
Select sales and customer service strategies and apply them to the needs of an enterprise.
Apply a range of human resource practices that support and promote small business objectives and goals and optimize all functional areas of a small business operation.
Implement principles of supply chain management and operations management and analyze their impact on the operations of a small business.
Conduct small business activities and transactions in compliance with pertinent legislation, policies, health and safety and other regulations, professional and business standards, as well as tax, insurance and other fiscal requirements.
Promote principles of sustainability and corporate social responsibility that apply to small business initiatives.
Prepare and follow a plan for ongoing personal and professional development to establish and maintain entrepreneurial networking and business relationships and opportunities.
Plan, implement and evaluate projects by applying project management principles to support the operation and management of a small business.
Use market research to optimize the operation of a small business.
Select and implement risk management strategies to support all aspects of the operation of a small business.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,135.00 *
International Tuition
$18,253.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
College advanced diploma (three-year) or bachelor's degree or demonstrated, relevant work experience (resumé and references required).
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English language proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission. In addition, applicants who are considered for admission to the program based solely on their work experience will be required to provide proof of English proficiency at the college level, and may be required to write the George Brown College English admission assessment.
Please see our
English proficiency requirements
for more details.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
Entrepreneurship Management (B416)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information), please contact the program co-ordinator:
Tom Supra
, Program Co-ordinator
Email:
tsupra@georgebrown.ca
Social Channels:
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Management
and classes usually take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Project Management (Postgraduate) (B415)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.