Event Planning Program (H141)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Event Planning
Code:
H141
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,980.00 * †
International Tuition:
$19,017.00 ** †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Hospitality & Tourism Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing, and that is why we have incorporated work-integrated learning opportunities into all CHCA programs.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Open
Opens Aug 6, 2024
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Sport and Event Marketing (Postgraduate) (B400)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
If you thrive in fast-paced environments where every day brings something new, the
Event Planning
program is for you. Develop the skills to design, co-ordinate, promote and deliver impressive events, including conferences, fundraisers, trade shows and weddings.
Full Description
Get ready to launch an exciting career in the fast-paced world of event planning. Develop the skills and get the practical, real-world experience to succeed in a range of roles, including event planner, festival planner, catering manager and event fundraiser with the two-year
Event Planning (H141)
diploma program.
The program focuses on event planning, design, co-ordination, marketing, sponsorship, budgeting, risk management and event evaluation. It is taught online and through in-class lectures. Each semester, you will participate in event management opportunities, culminating in a final capstone event and a 14-week work-integrated learning placement. This hands-on approach to learning and the course mix, including event-specific courses, business foundations and hospitality, will provide you with the skills to launch your career in event management.
This program allows you to switch to any of our hospitality and tourism management diploma programs by your second year should your hospitality area of interest change. We know life can be full of unexpected events; should you not be able to complete your final year of study, our common first-year model makes you eligible to graduate with a one-year certificate in
Hospitality Services (H101)
.
Your Field Education Options
This program provides a final capstone event and a mandatory 14-week work-integrated learning placement. George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed event management industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the program's learning outcomes. This valuable work experience can be added to your resumé.
In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide learning opportunities with real-world challenges and customers.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
You will have your pick of exciting and challenging roles, such as:
event planner
conference planner
meeting planner
catering manager
incentive travel manager
festival planner
social event planner
event fundraiser
volunteer coordinator
Educational Pathways
Earn a diploma and a bachelor’s degree. Qualified graduates of our Event Planning program may be eligible to enter the
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality)
degree program at George Brown College as an advanced standing student in September or January. You may also choose to start in the spring bridging semester from May to August, continuing into the degree program in September. This educational path requires a minimum grade point average of 2.7 to qualify. Talk to a program coordinator about articulation options.
For further information, see the
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOST 1085
Principles of Hospitality and Tourism Management
HOST 1171
Global Accommodation Industry
HOST 1172
Introduction to Wines and Beverages
HOST 1070
Introduction to Catering
HOST 1146
Leading, Following and Speaking with Confidence
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH 1250
Introduction to Management Numeracy with Excel Applications
HOST 1068
Smart Serve (online certificate)
HOSF 1145
Sanitation (online certificate)
HOSF 1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HOST 1174
Remarkable Restaurant Service – An Introduction to the Industry
HOST 1043
Special Events Planning and Delivery
HOST 1173
Hospitality Marketing and Social Media
HOST 1160
Career Preparation
HOST 1175
Global Tourism Geography*
HRM 1015
Human Resources Management*
LAW 1017
Introduction to Hospitality Law*
ACCT 1048
Hospitality Accounting*
GSCI 1035
Science of Sustainability
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
HOST 1097
Meetings and Conferences
HOST 1139
Technical Meeting and Event Production
HOST 2066
Event Operations I
HOST 2077
Building Your Special Event Business
HOST 2091
Budgeting for Special Events
HOST 1129
Selling Special Events
HOST 2072
Volunteer Management
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
HOST 2063
Events Operations II - Capstone Event Project
HOST 2141
Industry Externship
GNED
General Education Elective
* 7-weeks courses
** Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 Introduction to College Communication before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Plan and design events to meet organizational and client objectives.
Select food and beverage catering services, site location and decor according to the theme and needs of an event.
Develop marketing plans and related promotional plans for events that will meet the needs of the organization and/or client.
Coordinate and/or supervise staff, contractors and volunteers in order to achieve the desired performance.
Employ best practices for financial management in the planning of events.
Manage the business transactions of event projects to meet organization and/or client needs.
Develop strategies to mitigate risk and liability to ensure the safety and security of participants during an event.
Maintain ethical practices and professionalism in the events field to create positive relationships and experiences.
Apply strategies that support intercultural awareness and inclusion in event offerings that meet the needs of diverse populations.
Use industry-standard technology platforms, systems, tools and applications to support the operations of events.
Secure monies through sponsorships, funds or grants to support event objectives.
Engage in ongoing learning for professional and career growth.
Identify and respond to new career opportunities that may include contract work and entrepreneurship to secure employment.
Communicate information persuasively and accurately in written, verbal and interactive formats.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,980.00 * †
International Tuition
$19,017.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
† Additional Cost
Textbooks, manuals, etc. – $575 (fees are subject to change).
Included in material fees is a uniform; black pants, grey Oxford shirt and a bib apron.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses and any other selection criteria outlined below.
OSSD (Ontario Secondary School Diploma) or equivalent**
Grade 12 English (C or U)
Applicants may also qualify for admission through completion of the Hospitality Services (Pre-Hospitality) program (H101). There are a limited number of seats available, and admission is not guaranteed.
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice, and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens, including nuts, dairy and shellfish, are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to Halal and Kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
Event Planning (H141)
For general School of Hospitality and Tourism Management related inquiries, please contact
chcastudentsupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Sport and Event Marketing (Postgraduate) (B400)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.