Food Tourism Entrepreneurship Program (Postgraduate) (H417)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Food Tourism Entrepreneurship
Code:
H417
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$9,105.00 *
International Tuition:
$28,165.00 **
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Hospitality & Tourism Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Experiential Learning in the format of field trips, guest speakers and industry events are explored in semesters 1 and 2. The third semester is devoted to research and work placement. Collaborations with industry members will be explored to identify opportunities for applied research and work-integrated learning.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) (H311)
Advanced Wine and Beverage Business Management (Postgraduate) (H414)
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Learn to create "taste of place" experiences that support local economies and emphasize sustainability with the
Food Tourism Entrepreneurship (Postgraduate)
program. This one-year program, geared toward graduates of hospitality, tourism, culinary arts and business diploma and degree programs, will prepare you for a career as a tourism entrepreneur and a range of exciting roles with local and international tourism attractions, restaurants and resorts, wineries and breweries, government agencies and more.
Full Description
Explore the geography of food and beverage and learn to develop partnerships to promote unique experiences with the
Food Tourism Entrepreneurship (Postgraduate) (H417)
program. This one-year graduate certificate program prepares graduates to harness local economies and cultures of food and drink and channel them into successful and resilient tourism "experience" enterprises.
Graduates may find career opportunities at local and international tourism attractions, culinary travel groups/associations, restaurants, wineries, breweries, cideries, distillers, agricultural destinations, destination marketing and development organizations, and government agencies in roles such as culinary tourism program manager, marketing travel consultant and conference services manager.
This program builds on the strengths of George Brown College's School of Hospitality and Tourism Management and Chef School. Business graduates may also be interested in pathways in this field.
Students will learn to:
connect and work with businesses, communities and associations
support local economies by fostering relationships with stakeholders in agriculture, hospitality, tourism and agritourism
bring creative entrepreneurship skills to the small and medium food tourism businesses that make up the food tourism sector
provide consumers with "taste of place" experiences that build on new business models and opportunities
generate, capture, communicate and market unique experiences that speak to sustainability and traceability consumer values
The first two semesters of this program each include six courses provided through hybrid delivery. The third semester has three online hours of independent research projects per week, plus a work-integrated learning experience.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates may pursue employment in such roles as:
tourism entrepreneur
culinary tourism program manager
communications co-ordinator
travel consultant
food and beverage manager
conference services manager
Graduates may find career opportunities in:
local and international culinary tourism attractions
culinary travel agencies/tour groups/associations
restaurants and resorts
farms and fisheries providing tourism experiences
wineries, breweries, cideries and distillers
destination marketing and development organizations
government agencies
Industry
The food tourism sector's return to the impressive growth and innovation of pre-pandemic years is founded on creative entrepreneurship and local "taste of place" experiences. It explores the geography of food and beverage in traditional and new and sustainable ways. According to Destination Canada, Canadians spend $43 billion a year outside the country, while inbound visitors to Canada spend $22 billion. There is an immense opportunity within Canada and, as Marsha Walden, President and CEO of Destination Canada, has said, “If we could capture 25 per cent of that outbound revenue it would be a huge boost to our industry.” New enterprises that grow from the disruption of the global pandemic will be agile, local and will reinvent the way consumers connect with their culinary landscape.
Educational Pathways
This graduate certificate program is well suited to graduates of programs in hospitality, tourism, culinary arts, business or marketing, including:
Baking and Pastry Arts Management (H113)
Culinary Management (H100/H116)
Culinary Management – Nutrition (H119)
Food and Beverage Management – Restaurant Management (H132)
Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Event Planning (H141)
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
a wide variety of business programs
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
HOST 1165
Gastronomy and Tastes of Place 1
HOST 1166
Entrepreneurship in Food Tourism
HOST 1167
Leadership and Innovation in Food Tourism
HOST 1168
Food Tourism Marketing
HOST 1169
Circular Economy and Sustainable Chef
HOST 1170
Global Tourism Management
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
HOST 1211
Gastronomy and Tastes of Place 2
HOST 1212
Event Planning in Food Tourism
HOST 1213
Fundamentals of Wine and Beverage for Food Tourism
HOST 1214
Food Writing and Social Media of Food
HOST 1215
Sustainable Tourism and Ecopreneurship
HOST 1216
Research Methods in Food Tourism
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
HOST 1303
Special Topics in Food Tourism Entrepreneurship
HOST 1304
Externship/Field Placement
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
Research and assess local, national and global environments for food and beverage tourism opportunities that connect to local producers and provide tourists with authentic destination experiences.
Develop sustainable food and beverage tourism products and experiences that equitably support the local environment and economy while recognizing the diverse cultural needs, experiences, and practices of local and global communities.
Design marketing strategies to promote existing and new food enterprises, products and experiences using a variety of platforms appropriate to the target market.
Develop business plans for sustainable food enterprises that strategically respond to evolving and changing market needs.
Design innovative, creative and adaptive ideas and strategies for dynamic and ever-changing food tourism enterprises, products and experiences to ensure business competitiveness and sustainability.
Select sales and customer service strategies and apply them to an enterprise's needs to ensure business long-term operational sustainability.
Prepare and follow a plan for ongoing personal and professional development to establish and maintain entrepreneurial networking and business relationships and opportunities.
Plan, implement and evaluate projects by applying management principles to support a small business's operation and administration.
Select and implement risk management strategies to support all aspects of a small business operation.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$9,105.00 *
International Tuition
$28,165.00 **
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the three semesters of the programs starting in the
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and later dates.  This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
A diploma or bachelor's degree in food and beverage management, hotel management, tourism and hospitality management, special event management, culinary management, culinary management – nutrition, business or a related area.
Applicants who do not meet the above requirements but who have experience in the industry may submit a resumé and be interviewed for consideration.
COURSE EXEMPTIONS
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
Transfer Credit Guide
for more information.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for the program. In addition, applicants who are accepted based on work experience only will be required to take the English Admissions Assessment in order to evaluate the appropriate level of English language proficiency.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
HEALTH POLICY
Students should be aware that various allergens, including nuts, dairy and shellfish, are routinely used in practice labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges
.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
Food Tourism Entrepreneurship (H417)
For general School of Hospitality and Tourism Management–related inquiries, please contact
chcastudentsupport@georgebrown.ca.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) (H311)
Advanced Wine and Beverage Business Management (Postgraduate) (H414)
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.