Food and Nutrition Management Program (Postgraduate) (H402)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Food and Nutrition Management
Code:
H402
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters) September to May
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,685.00 * †
International Tuition:
$18,605.00 ** †
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing, and that is why we have incorporated work-integrated learning opportunities into all CHCA programs.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Culinary Management – Nutrition (H119)
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) (H315)
Honours Bachelor of Food Studies (H317)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This program is eligible for
a $1000 entrance award.
Are you a hospitality or culinary arts graduate passionate about health care and nutrition? The one-year
Food and Nutrition Management (Postgraduate)
program is for you. Through classroom instruction and work placements, you'll learn how hospitals, retirement homes and long-term care facilities provide their patients with nutritious food and care.
Full Description
Prepare for a rewarding career with the one-year
Food and Nutrition Management (Postgraduate) (H402)
program. Build on your culinary skills and learn about food modification, clinical nutrition, physiology, nutrition analysis, sanitation and safety. Through classroom instruction and work placements, you'll learn how hospitals, retirement homes and long-term care facilities provide nutritious food and care to patients and residents.
This one-year nutrition graduate certificate program is accredited by the Canadian Society of Nutrition Management, which is necessary for employment as a food and nutrition manager in Ontario.
George Brown College has been delivering this nutrition program with great success for more than 30 years.
Program Schedule
The schedule for the Food and Nutrition Management program is based on a five-day week, Monday to Friday, with classes from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. This allows students to pursue part-time positions in related health care fields while in school.
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Your Field Education Options
This program includes an externship in a health-care industry setting. For students who do not have a culinary credential, the program includes an additional work-integrated learning experience. These valuable work experiences can be added to your resumé. Please contact the program co-ordinator with questions.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
You will have excellent employment opportunities among the growing number of residences and health care facilities that serve Canada's increasing population of seniors. As a graduate of this nutrition program, you will be eligible to become a member of the Canadian Society of Nutrition Management, allowing you to work as a Food and Nutrition Manager in Ontario's provincially accredited health-care facilities, as well as across Canada.
Your career could lead to a rewarding position in one of Ontario's many hospitals, long-term care facilities, manufacturing operations, community services organizations and retirement homes. Positions may include:
food service supervisor
food manager
nutrition manager
diet technician
food service director
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOSF 4010
Management Sanitation and Safety
HOST 4003
Menu Analysis
MGMT 4005
Food Service Management
NUTR 4002
Nutrition Analysis
NUTR 4013
Clinical Nutrition I
PHSL 4001
Basic Physiology
COMM 4012
Leadership Communication
HOSF 1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
HOSF 1287
WHMIS
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HOSF 4005
Food Modification Lab
HOST 4001
Facilities Design
HOST 4002
Health Care Standards
HRM 4001
Labour Relations
NUTR 4023
Clinical Nutrition II
PSY 4001
Gerontology
COMM4022
Management Communication
HOST4020
Work-Integrated Learning*
EXTN4000
Health Care Industry Externship
*Students who do not have a culinary credential must complete an additional work-integrated learning opportunity in a health care industry externship.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to
Plan menus to accommodate the nutritional, dietary and medical needs, cultural and religious requirements, and personal preferences of clients.
Manage handling, preparation and service of food to ensure compliance with relevant legislation, policies, procedures and industry best practices for health, safety, sanitation, quality assurance and client satisfaction.
Manage nutritional needs of diverse clients in health care and other food service settings in collaboration with or under the direction of health care professionals.
Support others to work professionally and ethically in accordance with industry, organization and legal standards.
Monitor relevant local, national and global trends, emerging technologies, changes to legislation and best practices to enhance work performance and guide management decisions.
Deliver customer service that anticipates, meets and/or exceeds individual expectations and is consistent with organization standards and objectives.
Manage hiring, coaching, training, scheduling, work performance and evaluation of department staff in accordance with human resources, labour relations, workplace health and safety and industry best practices.
Manage inventory, suppliers and procurement of goods and services according to industry best practices, financial constraints and principles of social responsibility and environmental sustainability.
Analyze food and nutrition services and operations, and manage the implementation and evaluation of changes, to support continuous improvement.
Plan and manage budgets consistent with organization objectives and legal requirements for food and nutrition service departments.
Select, use and support the use of information and industry-specific technologies to enhance individual work performance and the management and delivery of food and nutrition services.
Promote food and nutrition services and healthy living to support marketing plans and the general well-being of stakeholders.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,685.00 * †
International Tuition
$18,605.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.  This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
† Additional Cost
Description
Cost
Knives and small wares
$500–$700
Books
$600
Black Safety Shoes
$110–$160
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Culinary apprenticeship, certificate, diploma or bachelor’s degree in Culinary or Hospitality Management, or BSc/MSc in Dietetics
demonstrated experience (resumé required)
online interview
Note:
A degree in a nutrition-related discipline will be considered, which must include marketing and accounting courses. If you do not have these courses on your current transcript, you will be required to complete them during the course of the program to graduate.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form requirements and program policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 8 to 10 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as TDAP shot, COVID-19, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres and Two-Step TB Skin Test), proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the program specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a
Vulnerable Sector Check
completed, and this check must be renewed every year before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Vulnerable Sector Check will not be able to start their field or clinical placement and will therefore be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program. Our agency partners have the final decision for students being allowed to practice in their agency.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens including nuts, dairy and shellfish are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
FOOD and NUTRITION MANAGEMENT (H402)
For general Chef School inquiries, please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Culinary Management – Nutrition (H119)
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) (H315)
Honours Bachelor of Food Studies (H317)
"Being in the culinary field for almost a decade, I wanted to propel my career to the next level. I decided to pursue a postgraduate diploma in Food and Nutrition Management. George Brown College was the obvious choice for me. I had interactions with industry professionals in the past who were alumni of the college and I have nothing but admiration and respect for them all. The values and learning acquired at George Brown permeate the industry and sets the standard very high. The program was challenging and intensive but it absolutely put me in a position to succeed in a management role. Professors and guest speakers alike were practicing industry professionals who disseminated current and relevant industry insight that was useful and invaluable to my career advancement. Being Canadian Society of Nutrition Managers (CSNM) accredited, the program is highly recognized throughout the industry!"
Eugene Badal
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.