General Arts and Science – One-Year Program (Certificate) (R104)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
General Arts and Science – One-Year
Code:
R104
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,866.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,992.00 **
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Liberal Arts & Sciences
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
General Arts and Science (Diploma) (R101)
General Arts and Science – English for Academic Purposes (R105)
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
General Arts and Science (One-Year)
certificate program helps you strengthen your skills for future academic study and entry into the workplace. Over two semesters, you'll study a range of foundational subject areas that will help you build confidence as you develop critical thinking and information literacy skills. After graduation, you can apply to other post-secondary programs, including our R101 diploma—a program with several advanced standing pathways to a variety of university degree programs.
Full Description
The
General Arts and Science (One-Year)
certificate program teaches you the skills and competencies you need to succeed in college, university, and the workplace. This program, which starts in both September and January, will allow you to explore a variety of subject areas, including:
the humanities
social sciences
natural sciences
science
mathematics
Over two semesters, you'll develop critical thinking skills and build upon existing oral and written communication skills.
This program also offers a valuable career exploration component; this will help you consider your future study options, which may include a college program that offers training for a specific job, or if eligible, a pathway to a university degree in an area of personal interest.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Many students use the one-year (two semesters) certificate program to qualify for admission to various college and university programs. Others transfer to the
two-year (four semesters) General Arts and Science diploma program
(R101). R101 diploma graduates may apply to other college and university programs with advanced standing if they meet the grade point average and admission requirements for those programs.
Some R104 certificate graduates prefer to enter the world of work directly from the program. A liberal arts and science education helps students develop the communication and critical thinking skills valued by employers and required in the world of work, particularly in careers that encourage on-the-job training and professional development.
Educational Pathways
Vocation-specific college studies:
Students who meet the grade point average (GPA) requirements could be eligible for exemptions or advanced standing in other college programs depending on the length of their studies, their grades, and the college and program requirements.
Students who successfully complete the General Arts and Science one-year (two semesters) certificate may proceed directly into the second year of the
General Arts & Science diploma
program if they meet all criteria.
University transfer options:
After one year of full-time studies, students who meet the GPA requirements can apply for admission to many university liberal arts and humanities programs, sometimes with transfer credits, depending on their grades, the university, and the program requirements. Students should seek information about any program-specific and institutional requirements at those universities.
In addition, graduates of this program may qualify for admission into degree studies at George Brown if they meet specific entrance requirements.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
GSCI 1024
Environmental Science
HUMN 1111
Critical Thinking: A Reasoning Experience
MATH 1034
Mathematics for General Arts & Science
SSCI 1011
Learning and the Brain
HUMN 1035
Introduction to Media Studies
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
SSCI 1106
Introduction to Research
HUMN 1114
Reasoning and Rhetoric: Reading Between the Lines
GSSC 1055
Fundamental Themes in Geography
STS 1035
Exploring Career Options
MATH ELECTIVE (ONE REQUIRED)
Code
Course name
GSSC 1027
Personal Finance
MATH 1094
Calculus
STAT 1014
Embracing Data: Mathematical Tools for Informed Decisions
SCIENCE ELECTIVE (ONE REQUIRED)
Code
Course name
GSCI 1065
Human Biology
GSCI 1045
Nutrition
GSCI 1146
Plants and Society
* Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Develop, through general knowledge gained in a wide range of subjects, insight into both self and society.
Develop flexibility and clarity of both thought and expression in order to develop communications competence to a level required by business and industry.
Understand and utilize critical-thinking processes and problem-solving techniques.
Examine and evaluate various aspects of our changing society to assist in developing a sense of personal and social responsibility as a citizen in society.
Employ basic vocational skills drawn from the areas of the humanities, social and behavioural sciences of vocational studies (business, technology).
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,866.00 *
International Tuition
$17,992.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
Apply to
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Contact the program by email at
gas@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Thinking about attending George Brown? The General Arts and Science program is taught mainly at our St. James Campus at 341 King Street East, Toronto, Ontario. Sign up for an
information session
, book a general
campus tour
to see the common areas of the campus (i.e., cafeteria, student services, the gym, etc.) or explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
General Arts and Science (Diploma) (R101)
General Arts and Science – English for Academic Purposes (R105)
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.