Health Informatics Program (Postgraduate) (T402)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Health Informatics
Code:
T402
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$7,583.00 * ‡
International Tuition:
$18,913.00 ** ‡
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Computer Technology
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Mandatory Co-op or Work Integrated Project
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Health Information Management (C139)
Information Systems Business Analysis (with experiential learning capstone) (Postgraduate) (T405)
Office Administration – Health Services (S135)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Health Informatics
is a one-year graduate certificate program for healthcare and information systems professionals currently employed or with experience in healthcare or technology, or who have an interest in the advancement of IT in healthcare.
We aim to accommodate busy schedules with evening and weekend classes; however, some courses are scheduled during daytime hours. See the Full Description section for more details.
Full Description
The landscape of healthcare is undergoing a remarkable transformation thanks to the evolution of information and communication technologies. This shift is revolutionizing the way we access and share information, all aimed at enhancing patient care.
Our
Health Informatics
one-year graduate certificate program brings together professionals from both health-related and IT sectors to shape you into a health informatics specialist, ready to tackle the challenges of current and future healthcare systems. If you're a professional in IT, healthcare, or related areas, and dream of being a health informatician/analyst, or if you're a practitioner wanting to level up your game with formal education, this intensive program is for you.
Throughout the program, our team of health informatics/business system analyst pros and faculty will guide you through developing critical skills and competencies in these areas:
healthcare systems, technologies, and trends
electronic medical records (EMRs)
ethical, professional, legal, and policy implications of health information systems technologies and health information standards
problem identification and analysis
documenting and analyzing healthcare organization, health user, and solution requirements
process, workflow, and system/solution modelling
project management
technical writing
leadership and management
business and system analysis techniques and core professional competencies such as analytical thinking and problem solving, communication and facilitation, and collaborative skills
The Health Informatics program is all about diving deep into the world of health informatics. What makes this graduate certificate program stand out? It's all about hands-on experience and application. You'll immerse yourself in health informatics and analysis through case studies, industry projects, and practical work experience. As you develop innovative solutions, you'll emerge from this program with skills that prepare you for the real-life demands of your career.
Upon graduation, you'll have the essential skills and competencies needed for professional certification programs in Health Informatics and Project Management.
Here are some skills you'll be able to show off after completing this program:
Formulate change strategies to implement health information systems technologies (HIST) within the healthcare setting.
Apply business and system analysis techniques to evaluate the effectiveness of health information systems technologies within a health-related setting.
Design and protoype web and mobile health apps.
Integrate relevant standards and professional, ethical, and legislative requirements with health information system technologies.
Design training and education for the effective use of HIST.
Configure all aspects of an EMR used by physicians in outpatient settings and multidisciplinary clinics.
Hands-On Experience With A Commercial EMR
We've partnered with Arya Health, the maker of AryaEHR, a commercially available EMR, to give you hands-on practical experience with an EMR that physicians use across Canada. This means you'll graduate with EMR experience on your resume, giving you a competitive edge in the marketplace.
George Brown College is the only College that offers this valuable experience.
Find out more on
AryaEHR's website
.
IIBA ACADEMIC MEMBERSHIP
Academic Membership in the International Institute of Business Analysis (IIBA) offers colleges and universities that have Business Analyst curriculums and care about advancing the BA profession within their student population the opportunity to participate in IIBA membership and benefit from IIBA’s other products and services. The Academic recognition programs offer the students of Business Analyst-related programs the opportunity to receive recognition from the IIBA.
NEW – GRADUATES PREPARED TO WRITE THE IIBA ENTRY CERTIFICATION IN BUSINESS ANALYSIS (TM) DESIGNATION (ECBA).
Students who successfully graduate from this program will be prepared to write the IIBA Entry Certification of Business Analysis designation from the International Institute of Business Analysis. This professional designation recognizes the student’s theoretical understanding of the Business Analyst Body of Knowledge (BABOK), as well as the context of business analysis applied across industries.
Learn more about the
Entry Certification in Business Analysis
(
www.iiba.org
).
Technology Requirements
This program requires you to have access to a personal laptop with the following specifications:
Screen 13-inch minimum
Webcam + mic
8 GB RAM
256 GB SSD Hard Drive (512 GB SSD is better)
Quad-core i7 2.4GHz or better
2 TB (minimum) external hard drive
Consistent access to a reliable high-speed internet connection (minimum 10 Mbs download speed recommended)
Program Delivery
Note on program delivery: Most courses take place in the evening and on weekends; however, some courses may take place from 2 PM - 6 PM on weekdays.
Your Field Education Options
In semester 3, students complete a Work Integrated Project, or qualified students are eligible for co-op. Learn more about how to qualify, apply, and important dates for co-op on the
Centre for Arts, Design & Information Technology Experiential Learning
page.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Upon completion of the program, you'll have the skills needed for positions such as:
project/program coordinator
service desk analyst
product analyst
apps analyst
testing analyst
privacy co-ordinator
training co-ordinator
clinical informatics co-ordinator
data co-ordinator
junior business analyst
Courses
Required Courses
PRINTABLE CURRICULUM PLANNER 2024-2025
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
BUS 4051
Foundations of Business Analysis
BUS 4053
Business Analysis Competencies and Techniques I
BUS 4054
IT Project Management
COMP 4050
Health Informatics and Clinical Practice I
COMP 4014
Health Care System
COMP 4015
Health Care Information Technology
COMP 4080
Knowledge Management and Clinical Decision-Making
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
COMP 4064
Career Planning and Portfolio Development
COMP 4024
Health Data Standards
COMP 4033
Health Information Systems Analysis and Evaluation
COMP 4084
Health Business and Systems Analysis Case I
COMP 4051
Health Informatics and Clinical Practice II
COMP 4083
Health Information Legislation, Privacy and Security
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
TCOP 4012
Co-op Work Placement
OR
COMP 4090
Work-Integrated Project
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Assess organizational requirements for health information system technologies (HIST).
Formulate strategies for the selection and implementation of HIST.
Design and deliver educational/training strategies for end-users.
Evaluate the impact of HIST on business/clinical processes, and on health services delivery.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,583.00 * ‡
International Tuition
$18,913.00 ** ‡
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
‡ Semester 3 fees will consist of a flat fee of $500 for co-op placement or for the work-integrated project, fees are to be paid separately, both of which are not included in the total above.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Minimum two-year diploma or bachelor's degree* in Health Sciences or related field from an accredited institution.
OR
Minimum three-year diploma in Information Technology* or related field from an accredited institution.
PLUS:
Minimum one year of work experience as a health-care professional or an IT professional, or equivalent (resumé required).
Candidates will be accepted based on the combination of relevant education and work experience.
* Please note that domestic applicants who are submitting international transcripts require a Canadian equivalency evaluation. This can be obtained through ICAS (International Credential Assessment Service) at
icascanada.ca
or WES (World Education Services) at
wes.org/ca
.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide
English language proficiency test results
must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Computer Technology
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4287
Email:
computertechnology@georgebrown.ca
The office hours are:
Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Program Co-ordinator: Dr. Thérèse Bernier
Email:
Therese.Bernier@georgebrown.ca
Phone: 416-415-5000 x 3744
Office hours: Monday, 2-5 P.M.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
The Health Informatics program is offered through our
School of Computer Technology
from our
Casa Loma Campus
at
146 Kendal Avenue
. Sign up for an
information session
or
campus tour
to learn more about George Brown College and the program. You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Health Information Management (C139)
Information Systems Business Analysis (with experiential learning capstone) (Postgraduate) (T405)
Office Administration – Health Services (S135)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.