Health Information Management Program (C139)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Health Information Management
Code:
C139
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters) September to May
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,772.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,905.00 **
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Health Services Management
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field education in semesters 3 and 4
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Health Informatics (Postgraduate) (T402)
Office Administration – Health Services (S135)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This program is accredited by the
Canadian Health Information Management Association (CHIMA)
.
The Canadian College of Health Information Management is a national, not-for-profit corporation that sets the accreditation standards for educational institutions and certification standards for health information professionals in Canada.
The Canadian College of Health Information Management sets the accreditation standards for educational institutions offering health information programs in Canada.
Program Overview
The
Health Information Management
program prepares graduates to participate in the collection and organization of health information. Over the course of two years, students will develop the skills and knowledge they need to work as health information practitioners.
Full Description
The
Health Information Management
(C139)
two-year diploma program focuses on providing the skills and knowledge needed by health information practitioners by preparing graduates to participate in the collection and organization of health information. This program is fully accredited by the
Canadian Health Information Management Association (CHIMA).
The Health Information Management curriculum content emphasizes:
biomedical sciences
health informatics
health record systems
medical classification systems and coding
data collection
statistical analysis and presentation
health-care legislation
Health Information Management practitioners:
work with health-care providers and stakeholders to transition from the paper health record to the electronic health record
develop, implement and maintain health information systems
protect patient information and promote confidentiality awareness
control the release of medico-legal information
evaluate standards of documentation according to established criteria
provide essential information for clinical research, quality improvement, utilization review, budgeting and other administrative applications
Graduates are eligible to write the
Canadian Health Information Management Association national certification examination
.
Please visit the
Canadian Health Information Management Association website
to learn more about this certification and the associated exam fee.
Note: Students in this Health Information Management program will be required to provide their own laptop computer for the duration of the program. Details regarding specifications will be provided upon acceptance to the program.
Your Field Education Options
Field placement plays an important role in George Brown College's Health Information Management program by giving students the chance to apply what they've learned in the classroom to a real-world environment.
During the second year, field placement is integrated throughout semesters 3 and 4. Students will visit a partner office every Friday until the end of semester 4. During this time, students will be exposed to various components of health data, such as the collection of, type of, auditing of, analyzing of, and privacy issues related to data. At the end of semester 4, they will go on a three-week block placement. During this time, students will be expected to complete a project related to health data to include an analysis of data and health-data-related issues.
The type of sites where students can expect to conduct their field experiences include:
health-care facilities
Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care
health-related insurance companies
Ontario Hospital Association
community care access centres
PLEASE NOTE:
Some of our clinical or work placement partners may require students to show proof of full vaccination. As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Health Information Management practitioners are in demand as key members of the health-care community. They work closely with many other health-care professionals to contribute to the management of health information and quality care.
Health Information Management graduate employment opportunities exist within the public and private sectors with:
acute care hospitals
primary health-care teams
ambulatory care facilities
workplace health and safety boards
health record consulting firms
Canadian Institute of Health Information
specialized hospitals
community care centres
Ministries of Health
computer companies
research centres
insurance companies
Educational Pathways
Health Information Management graduates who are certified with the
Canadian Health Information Management Association
may apply to Toronto Metropolitan University (formerly Ryerson University) to complete the Ted Rogers School of Management
Bachelor of Health Administration (BHA).
Graduates of our program may also apply to the
Bachelor of Applied Health Information Science (BA HIS) degree at Conestoga College
. Graduates are eligible to enter the two-year BA HIS bridging program.
For further information, see the
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
RECM 1023
Anatomy and Physiology
PATH 1001
Pathophysiology I: Microbiology
RECM 1001
Health Information Management I
RECM 1005
Medical Terminology I
LAW 2008
Health Care Law
MATH 1112
Fundamental Mathematics for Health Information Management
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication
Or
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
RECM 1024
Anatomy and Physiology/Genetics
PATH 1005
Pathophysiology II
RECM 2002
Health Information Management II
RECM 1011
Medical Terminology II
STAT 1013
Quantitative Methods and Hospital Statistics
COMP 1007
Excel Applications
RECM 1022
Transition to Employment
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
RECM 1003
Health Information Coding Classification I
RECM 2010
Health Information Management Field Education I
LAW 2023
Privacy and Release of Information
STAT 2001
Inferential Statistics and Research Methods
COMP 1227
Excel II
GNED
General Education Elective
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
RECM 2014
Health Information Systems
RECM 2007
Health Data Management
RECM 2011
Health Information Management Field Education II
RECM 2015
Health Information Coding Classification II
EPID 2001
Epidemiology
GNED
General Education Elective
** Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
web page for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Keep current with relevant local, national and global health care and health information management issues, trends, technologies and standards to support health information management systems and processes and guide professional development.
Assess personal health information from individual client visits for accuracy, completeness and consistency using knowledge of biomedical sciences, medical diagnoses and interventions, causes of diseases, and medical terminology, abbreviations and acronyms.
Apply current, accurate codes and standards to relevant personal health information from individual client visits using health information, coding, classification and abstracting systems proficiently.
Comply with the legal obligations, as well as with the professional, ethical and organizational standards that ensure privacy, security and confidentiality in the access, retention, storage and disposal of personal health information.
Contribute to the development, implementation and evaluation of health information management practices, policies and processes to support client care, organizational goals, operations, and regulatory compliance.
Participate in maintaining the completeness, accuracy, consistency, timeliness and integrity of health information throughout the management of its lifecycle.
Use knowledge of systems interoperability standards, database architecture, software versioning, classification and terminology mapping, data collection requirements, legal obligations, and the health information management lifecycle and apply fundamental project management principles and practices to support the procurement and implementation of health information management systems.
Retrieve and release personal health information in response to legitimate requests, in accordance with statutory requirements, and within specified deadlines.
Participate in the retrieval, analysis and presentation of relevant health information to stakeholders to support organizational decision-making, epidemiological studies and clinical research.
Work professionally, ethically and collaboratively with stakeholders and as a member of the interdisciplinary health care team, within a structured, regulated and evolving system of health care, to enhance the collection, distribution, use, security and awareness of quality health information and its impact on client care.
Use current and emerging technologies to support the management, analysis and presentation of health information.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,772.00 *
International Tuition
$17,905.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
grade 11 Biology (C or U) or grade 12 (U); or grade 11 Physics (U) or grade 12 (C or U); or grade 11 Chemistry (U) or grade 12 (C or U).
A minimum grade of 70 per cent is required in English, Mathematics and Science (Biology preferred) courses.
Attending an information session is strongly recommended.
A working knowledge of Microsoft applications (Word, Excel, Outlook) is strongly recommended.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, Math or Science, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
,
Math
or
Science
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form requirements and program policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 8 to 10 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(TDAP shot, COVID-19, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres and Two-Step TB Skin Test) and proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year . These requirements must be submitted by the program specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination:
Public Health recommends that people working with young children and other vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student. To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a Vulnerable Sector Check completed, and this check must be renewed every year before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Vulnerable Sector Check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
For more information, contact the
School of Health Services Management
at 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 or E-mail
hsmprograms@georgebrown.ca
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Health Informatics (Postgraduate) (T402)
Office Administration – Health Services (S135)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
"The Health Information Management program was the starting point in my health-care career. This program prepared me with the necessary knowledge and field placement experience to start in an entry level position even before graduation. This program brings value in hands-on experience integrated with knowledge and skills learned from the classroom. I feel the field placement component is a must-have in today’s world. The Health Information Management program at George Brown College will give you the best opportunity to advance in the industry."
Xiyuan (Siuwin) Wang
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.