Hearing Instrument Specialist Program (S117)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Hearing Instrument Specialist
Code:
S117
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,079.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,696.00 **
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Health & Wellness
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Clinical or field education in semesters 3, 4, 5 and 6.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Orthotic / Prosthetic Technician (S102)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing qualified hearing professionals for nearly 30 years.
Program Overview
The
Hearing Instrument Specialist
program will teach you the specialized skills required to work as a hearing health care professional. You will develop people skills and will learn how to use the latest technology to assess appropriate hearing solutions for those in need. For applicants with a relevant degree or diploma, we offer an opportunity for advanced standing into semester 3 of the program.
Full Description
The
Hearing Instrument Specialist (S117)
three-year advanced diploma program will teach you the clinical, technical and people skills you need to work as part of an interprofessional hearing health care team.
Hearing aids have evolved dramatically in recent years. Now smaller and more sophisticated in terms of capability, high-end devices leverage the latest technology and provide a superior hearing experience. If you like to work with technology and people, this is an exciting time to work as a hearing instrument specialist.
As hearing is a vital communication tool that helps us interact with others and our environment, hearing instrument specialists play an important role in helping deliver solutions to those diagnosed with hearing loss.
While hearing loss is not exclusive to older adults, it does often occur with age. With Canada's aging population, the demand for
highly qualified hearing instrument specialists
who can provide a
client-centred approach
to better hearing health care will continue to increase in the coming years.
In this program, you'll study the hearing instrument sciences to build a strong foundation in the theory and skills related to:
acoustics
audiometric testing
selection and fitting of hearing aids
hearing aid technology
You will develop clinical skills to
test and assess hearing
and
learn how to select and fit hearing aids.
You will also develop the soft skills, or people skills, needed to work with a range of clients with varying degrees of hearing loss. Skills like active listening, empathy and effective communication will help you learn how to connect with your clients and better understand their unique needs to provide exceptional client-based care.
You'll also be encouraged to develop an entrepreneurial mindset through additional courses that address key contemporary topics, including:
clinic management
health promotion
counselling
Earn this Advanced Diploma in Two Years with an Existing Credential
Applicants who have successfully completed a bachelor’s degree or a diploma in health sciences, social sciences, or a related field, with an overall average of B minus (or 2.7 GPA or 70 per cent) may be considered for advanced standing into semester 3 of the program.
Your Field Education Options
Field placement is a key component of this Hearing Instrument Specialist program, as it will allow you to apply what you've learned in the classroom to the work you will do with real patients.
This program offers both an internal and an external placement during semester 6.
Initially, you will participate in a 21-hour placement at our on-site state-of-the-art
WAVE Hearing Clinic (Hearing Clinic IV
). During this time, you will practise treating members of the public, including George Brown students, by performing the day-to-day tasks of a hearing instrument specialist (e.g., testing hearing, fitting hearing aids and providing client counselling).
In the second half of the final semester, you will work off-site with a community partner for seven weeks (equivalent to 245 clinic hours) and will once again perform the day-to-day tasks of a hearing instrument specialist.
PLEASE NOTE:
As a student in this program, you will be responsible for finding your own field experience opportunities. You will be supported in this process by program faculty.
External field education generally occurs in the broader Greater Toronto Area, so travel will be required. You should be aware that field education opportunities may be located anywhere within the province, especially if suitable opportunities cannot be found in Toronto and surrounding areas. You will be responsible for travel and other associated costs related to external field education opportunities.
Are you interested in this program but need more competitive marks? Consider enrolling in the
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Advanced Diplomas and Degrees (A108) program
. This program will help you develop new and strengthen existing skills in math, biology, chemistry, physics and communication.
PLEASE NOTE: While successful graduates of the (A108) program will be eligible to apply to this advanced diploma, it does not guarantee entry into this program.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Hearing Instrument Specialist program faculty have strong partnerships with industry and professional associations so that they can fully prepare graduates for employment.
The employment rate continues to be high in related career sectors, including:
clinical
manufacturing
training
self-employment
In Ontario, hearing aids may only be dispensed by prescription from a professional authorized by the Regulated Health Professions Act.
Hearing Instrument Specialist graduates are eligible for full membership in the
Association of Hearing Instrument Practitioners of Ontario (AHIP)
as a hearing instrument dispenser (HID); annual dues are paid to maintain membership in AHIP. Typically, graduates enrol in the Hearing Instrument Specialist (HIS) internship program and successfully complete 1,000 hours of practical work within 36 months of graduation. In addition, graduates must successfully complete the international licensing exam within the time period in order to become full hearing instrument specialist members of AHIP.
Full HIS members of AHIP can apply to become a hearing aid authorizer under the
Ontario Ministry of Health's Assistive Devices Program (ADP)
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
HEAR 1001
Clinical Acoustics
HEAR 1003
Introduction to Hearing Instrument Sciences
HEAR 1013
Functional Anatomy and Physiology
HEAR 1014
Ethics and Professionalism
HEAR 1016
Gerontology
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication (If necessary)
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
HEAR 1002
Hearing Disorders
HEAR 1009
Hearing Technology I: Linear to Digital Evolution
HEAR 1010
Hearing Testing I: Introduction to Audiometry
HEAR 1011
Psycho-social Impact of Hearing Loss
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Context**
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
HEAR 1015
Fundamental Skills for HIS
HEAR 2016
Hearing Instrument Technology II: Programming and ANSI Testing
HEAR 2010
Hearing Testing II: Intermediate Audiometry and Masking
HEAR 2012
Interviewing and Counselling
HEAR 2022
Hearing Clinic I
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
HEAR 2019
Hearing Instrument Technology III: Real Ear Measurement
HEAR 2021
Hearing Testing III: Advanced Audiometry
HEAR 2014
Business Management I: Introduction and Marketing
HEAR 2023
Hearing Clinic II
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course name
HEAR 3001
Hearing Instrument Technology IV: Hearing Instrument Features & Case Studies
HEAR 3003
Field Placement & Workplace Preparation
HEAR 3014
Business Management II: Finance & Planning
HEAR 3020
Hearing Clinic III
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course name
HEAR 3025
Hearing Clinic IV
HEAR 3029
Applied Counselling & Health Promotion
HEAR 3028
Hearing Instrument Technology V: Product Update
HEAR 3027
Community Field Placement
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
web page for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Administer a battery of hearing tests and analyze the results of these tests based on a thorough knowledge of functional anatomy and within the current scope of practice of a hearing instrument specialist.
Obtain an accurate ear mould impression based on an otoscopic examination.
Advocate and effectively communicate to a diverse audience the psycho-social implications of hearing loss.
Design a hearing health-care plan incorporating health promotion, rehabilitation and appropriate referrals based on comprehensive client history, observation and counselling.
Verify the benefits of the recommended devices, utilizing appropriate technology.
Fit and adjust the hearing devices using available technology and based on client observation, acoustical needs and counselling.
Teach the use and maintenance of hearing aids and/or assistive listening devices to clients and others.
Maintain, repair and modify assistive hearing devices for optimal performance.
Recommend appropriate hearing devices based on a comparison of manufacturers’ specifications and features and compatibility with other assistive listening devices.
Treat, counsel and communicate effectively with all clients, utilizing knowledge of the aging process as required.
Perform all roles and responsibilities as a hearing instrument specialist in accordance with accepted professional, ethical and legislative standards of the health care system.
Determine effective management practices for the operations of a hearing aid dispensary, including but not limited to accounting, health and safety practices, marketing, and business and resource planning.
Research and evaluate current community and government resources, new technologies and medical advances available for the benefit of the client.
Participate collaboratively as an integral member of the interprofessional health-care team.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,079.00 *
International Tuition
$18,696.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Biology (C or U) or grade 12 (U) – a grade of 70 per cent or higher is required
an information session is strongly recommended
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English or Science, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
or
Science
.
George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Please note:
Applicants who have successfully completed a bachelor’s degree or a diploma in a Health Sciences, Social Sciences or a related field, with a program average of B-minus [or 2.7 GPA or 70 per cent) may be considered for advanced standing into the third semester of the program. For more information, please contact Constantine Karolidis at
ckarolid@georgebrown.ca
or 416-415-5000, ext. 3830.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Call the George Brown School of Health and Wellness at 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. or E-mail
hwprograms@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Orthotic / Prosthetic Technician (S102)
Watch this short testimonial from a Hearing Instrument Specialist student to learn about her recent experience in the program.
Natalia Kouneli, Hearing Instrument Specialist Student
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.