Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Technology Program (T162)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Technology
Code:
T162
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,966.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,001.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Apprenticeship & Skilled Trades
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Technician (T160)
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Plumbing Techniques (T165)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This three-year
Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Technology
advanced diploma program provides you with an understanding of the factors involved in designing, building, controlling, and maintaining energy-efficient building environmental systems. The first two years of the program will give you practical skills through hands-on projects in the shops. You'll work on a wide range of furnaces, air conditioners, refrigeration equipment, and other appliances in our labs. In the third year, you'll focus more on commercial systems, giving you a well-rounded knowledge-base to succeed in the HVAC industry.
Full Description
Rising fuel costs, indoor air quality, and climate change are all factors in raising awareness of the true cost of energy, plus the need for energy-efficient building environmental system design, construction, and maintenance.
The
Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Technology
three-year advanced diploma program addresses the current and future needs of the heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and refrigeration (HVAC/R) industry. In the first two years, you'll learn about residential and some light commercial systems. In the third year, we'll hone in on your understanding of commercial systems.
This program covers the basics of air system and hydronic (water) system theory needed to design distribution systems, select suitable fans, pumps, heating and cooling systems, and controls for larger buildings.
The program follows industry-standard design practices for environmentally responsible and energy-efficient residential, commercial, and industrial systems, as established by the Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Institute (HRAI), the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), and the Canada Green Building Council.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
On successful completion of this program, you will have sufficient training to challenge the Gas Fitter 2 provincial qualification exam** and, if successful (75 per cent passing grade), obtain the Gas Fitter 2 certification.
As well, in the Building Code for HVAC (HVAC 2014) course delivered in semester 3, we assist students in preparing to challenge the Ontario Ministry of Consumer Affairs and Housing HVAC House exam.* Individuals who are successful (75 per cent passing grade) can use this qualification towards obtaining their Building Code Identification Number (BCIN).**
*Please note that in addition to passing the HVAC House exam, there are further requirements to qualify for a Building Code Identification Number. For more information on the Building Code Identification Number, please visit the
Ontario Building Code website
.
** The above-mentioned qualification exams are administered by the Province of Ontario. George Brown College is not responsible for the administration and/or marking of these exams.
As a graduate of this advanced diploma program, you may find employment opportunities in a broad range of disciplines within the industry, including:
consulting engineering and architectural firms
design/build contractors
school boards
commercial refrigeration installation and maintenance companies
building automation and control companies
building maintenance
HVAC/R manufacturing, sales and distribution companies
You may also pursue management careers in the mechanical sector of the construction industry or opt to become a self-employed specialty contractor.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
BLDG 1086
Building Science and Green Technologies
HVAC 1001
Refrigeration Theory I
HVAC 1006
Electrical Fundamentals for HVAC
HVAC 1018
Gas Technician III
MATH 1145
Math for HVAC 1
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HVAC 1003
Refrigeration Laboratory Applications
HVAC 1008
Electrical Circuit Analysis for HVAC
HVAC 1016
Gas Technician II (Part A)
HVAC 2003
Refrigeration Theory II
HVAC 2013
HVAC Computer Applications
MATH 1155
Math for HVAC 2
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
HVAC 1017
Gas Technician II (Part B)
HVAC 1022
Understanding Construction Drawings
HVAC 2012
Air Conditioning Theory
HVAC 2014
Building Code for HVAC
PORT 1001
Portfolio
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
HVAC 1021
Gas Technician II (Part C)
HVAC 2001
Residential HVAC System Design
HVAC 2006
Air Conditioning Laboratory Applications
COMM 1113
Professional Communications for Building Technologies
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
BLDG 3066
Entrepreneurship and Business for HVAC
CADE 3012
AutoCAD I
HVAC 3010
Commercial Load Estimating
HVAC 3011
Air Distribution Design
HVAC 3012
Hydronic System Design
HVAC 3020
Quantity Surveying
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
BLDG 2022
Law and Construction Contracts
HVAC 3013
AutoCAD for HVAC
HVAC 3014
Building Environment Systems Control Laboratory
HVAC 3015
Commercial Refrigeration System Design
HVAC 3016
Commercial/Industrial Ventilation System Design
HVAC 3017
Mechanical Systems Estimating
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Relate effectively to heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration supervisors, coworkers and customers.
Comply with applicable acts, regulations, legislation and codes to maintain personal and public safety.
Solve scientific, mathematical and engineering problems related to designing, operating and installing energy systems for commercial and industrial complexes.
Prepare and analyze detailed drawings, and compile technical specifications for energy systems.
Design, operate and install energy systems for commercial and industrial complexes.
Develop strategies for ongoing personal and professional development that lead to enhanced work performance and career opportunities, and keep pace with industry changes.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,966.00 *
International Tuition
$18,001.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
Math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Apprenticeship and Skilled Trades
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 6711
Email:
skilledtrades@georgebrown.ca
Office: Casa Loma Campus, Room E308
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Technician (T160)
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Plumbing Techniques (T165)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.