Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Digital Marketing) Program (B312)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Digital Marketing)
Code:
B312
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
4 years (8 semesters) plus 1 co-op work term
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$7,484.00 * †
International Tuition:
$20,916.00 ** †
Centre:
Business
School:
Marketing
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Students will participate in experiential learning opportunities which may include client-based classroom activities, consulting projects, and/or field placement assignments (internship or co-op).
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This program is eligible for
a $1000 entrance scholarship.
The intersection of technology and personalized experiences is the cornerstone of the
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Digital Marketing)
program. This four-year degree assembles two closely related industry realities: access to data, which offers opportunities for marketers to reach new audiences, and innovation in software and platforms, which has fostered personalized, direct communication with customers. Students will develop many essential skills and competencies in business concepts during the first two years of study, followed by analyzing and applying digital marketing concepts and practices in the final two years.
Full Description
The
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Digital Marketing)
degree will enable graduates to succeed in a field that has transformed how products and services are marketed. Our graduates are empowered to conquer modern marketing challenges while harnessing the power of the internet.
This program includes two foundational years common to other business degree programs followed by two years in which two specific digital marketing specializations are examined, owned media and social media. Additionally, students get to complete a suite of capstone courses and a work placement semester in the final two years.
Businesses need marketing professionals with a well-rounded education in all business areas to foster personalized experiences and manage the massive data sets now available. This program will demonstrate the use of digital devices, media, data, platforms, and technology to develop, implement, and manage marketing campaigns that promote a company and its products and services.
Your Field Education Options
Within the School of Marketing, there are many opportunities to network and learn from industry practitioners through guest lectures, business and marketing networking events, competitions, and on-campus clubs.
Students in the Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Digital Marketing) program will also complete a co-op paid work term.
MARKETING ASSOCIATIONS MEMBERSHIP
George Brown Marketing students have access to membership to two of Canada’s premier marketing associations, the CMA and IAB, included in their tuition fees:
Canadian Marketing Association (CMA)
membership includes:
Live and online events, with free or reduced member pricing
Professional development opportunities
Tools, resources, and guides for members only
Networking opportunities with thousands of marketers
Exclusive access to
CMA NXT
, a site dedicated to filling the gap between post secondary education and professional life
Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB)
membership includes:
Student volunteer (and networking) opportunities for marquee events
Members only webinars and podcasts
Original Canadian digital marketing research
Globally accepted digital ad standards
Globally standardized courses, certification, and custom workshops
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Throughout the degree, courses prepare students to work in digital marketing roles in for-profit and not-for-profit organizations, professional associations, academic settings, and consultancies. Due to the varied situations that graduates will encounter, this program emphasizes students' ability to work as productive team members to realize organizational goals and objectives while always approaching work in an ethical and accountable manner.
Industry
The Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Digital Marketing) degree is designed to develop students' understanding and application of business in a global market, digital marketing across industries, and scholarship using a wide scope of research methods. Graduates will use critical thinking, innovation, and creativity to react to technological, economic, social, and marketing changes as well as entrepreneurial and business acumen enveloped by research-to-practice skills. They will also have the capacity to solve problems, critique practices, recognize precedent, ideate, and innovate.
Marketing skills are needed within start-up organizations, small, medium and large businesses, and across the spectrum of agencies and consulting firms. Graduates of the Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Digital Marketing) program will be equipped with the insight and skills to hit the ground running in any size or type of firm.
Educational Pathways
Students who have completed an Ontario College Diploma in Business-Marketing (either at George Brown or other accredited colleges in Ontario) with a GPA of 3.0 or higher may be awarded advanced standing into year three of the Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Digital Marketing) degree. A bridge pathway will have to be completed to address gaps in content and credential level.
Graduates of the program may pursue further study options in master's level courses at many post-secondary institutions across Canada. Graduates from out-of-province institutions may apply for advanced standing on a course-by-course basis.
Courses
Required Courses
Students must successfully complete
40
courses, including 1 integrated work experience, in order to complete their degree. The integrated work
experience term can be co-op, internship, or academic (simulation, consulting, or research projects). This includes 34 mandatory courses and 6
liberal arts courses of your choice from the arts and humanities, social science, or science and technology.
Semester 1
COURSE CODE
COURSE TITLE
BBUS 1001
Canadian Business Fundamentals
BMTH 1003
Financial Mathematics
BBUS 1006
Microeconomics: Canada in the Global Environment
BCOM 1001
Applied Business Communication
BCMP 2007
Business Management Information Systems
Semester 2
COURSE CODE
COURSE TITLE
BBUS 1002
Marketing Management
BACC 1002
Introduction to Financial Accounting
BBUS 1007
Macroeconomics: Canada in the Global Environment
BBUS 1106
Organizational Behaviour
BBUS 1009
Critical Thinking and Problem Solving
Semester 3
COURSE CODE
COURSE TITLE
BCDM 1001
Marketing Strategy
BACC 2003
Managerial Accounting I
BLAW 2005
Canadian Business Law
BMTH 1002
Statistical Methods
BCOP 1000
Work Experience Preparation
Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 4
COURSE CODE
COURSE TITLE
BCDM 2000
Consumer Behaviour
BCDM 2001
Marketing Research
BBUS 4001
Operations Management
BFSM 4101
Human Resources Management
Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 5
COURSE CODE
COURSE TITLE
BCDM 3000
Planning Marketing Communications
BCDM 3001
Digital Marketing Fundamentals
BCDM 3002
Marketing Measurement & Analytics Fundamentals
BCDM 3003
Brand Storytelling
BBUS 3001
Human Skills
Semester 6
COURSE CODE
COURSE TITLE
BCDM 3004
Content Marketing
BCDM 3005
Search Marketing
BCDM 3006
Strategies for CRM and Loyalty Marketing
BCDM 3007
Owned Media Platforms
Liberal Studies Elective
BCOP 1103
WORK EXPERIENCE (CO-OP)
Semester 7
COURSE CODE
COURSE TITLE
BCDM 4000
Contemporary Topics in Marketing
BCDM 4001
Planning for Social Media Marketing
BCDM 4002
Strategies for Social Media Marketing
BCDM 4003
Social Networks
Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 8
COURSE CODE
COURSE TITLE
BCDM 4004
Digital Marketing Communications Challenge
BCDM 4005
Digital Marketing Simulation
BCDM 4006
Digital Marketing Analytics
Liberal Studies Elective
Articulation Agreement
Successful completion of the Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Digital Marketing) degree is recognized as a condition of admission to graduate-level study (master's programs) at many universities throughout Ontario and across Canada.
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Construct persuasive and professional communications with stakeholders using a variety of methods.
Develop interpersonal skills that lead to effective relationships with stakeholders.
Employ personal effectiveness skills to deliver consistently high workplace results.
Conduct primary and secondary marketing research to inform business decisions.
Analyze qualitative and quantitative data to solve marketing and organization problems.
Design marketing strategy to meet business and organization needs.
Create marketing communication plans and tactics using digital marketing concepts, models, frameworks and tools.
Evaluate and use digital media channels and platforms to deliver marketing communication plans.
Solve problems using critical, creative thinking and ethical and sustainable strategies.
Construct persuasive marketing storytelling using formats and media to meet audience needs.
Evaluate practices from a wide range of business disciplines to support the success of the organization.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,484.00 * †
International Tuition
$20,916.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include textbooks, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
† This program includes one work experience semester or equivalent.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma with six Grade 12 University (U) or University/College (M) courses,
including
Grade 12 (U) English
and
Grade 12 (U) Mathematics.
A grade of at least 60% in all prerequisite courses (English and math).
An overall average of 65% in six Grade 12 (U) or (M) courses.
Recommended courses include basic computer software applications and Mathematics of Data Management (MDM4U).
OR
Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)**
Grade 12 (U) English
and
Grade 12 (U) Mathematics are required
Grade of 65% or higher in English and 65% or higher in math
Post-secondary courses in English and mathematics will be considered (certain courses only)
** There is no mature student testing in the required Grade 12 University (U-level) credits for degree programs. Mature applicants must have the English and math credits required.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice, and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
English language proficiency:
George Brown College ESL Level 9; TOEFL 84 overall and 21 in each skill band (online); IELTS 6.5 overall and 6.0 in each skill band; MELAB 85; CAEL overall 70 (writing 60)
Proficiency in English communications is necessary for success in this program. Please review our
English proficiency requirements
. Applicants may be required to complete English testing to demonstrate proficiency.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
Transfer Guide
for more information.
George Brown has been granted consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree. In conformity with the Minister’s criteria and requirements, George Brown will apply for the renewal of the consent for this program 12 months prior to the expiration of the consent. George Brown will ensure that all students admitted to this program will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the co-ordinators:
Richard Almonte
, Program Co-ordinator
Email:
ralmonte@georgebrown.ca
John Peco
, Chair, School of Marketing
Email
:
john.peco@georgebrown.ca
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This
program is offered out of our
School of Marketing
and classes usually take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also take our
virtual tour.
Social Channels:
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn.
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.