Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English) Program (C302)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English)
Code:
C302
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
4 years (8 semesters) + 420-hour internship experience (equivalent to a 14-week term) (unpaid)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$8,464.00 *+
International Tuition:
$21,005.00 **+
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Deaf & Deafblind Studies
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Internship Experience (unpaid)
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
American Sign Language and Deaf Studies (C114)
Deafblind & Intervenor Studies (C158)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
The first degree of its kind in Canada.
Program Overview
The
Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English)
program combines classroom theory, research, hands-on practice, and professional field experience to prepare graduates to work as qualified interpreters.
Full Description
This program is eligible for
a $1000 entrance scholarship.
The
Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English) (C302)
program was developed to address the growing demand for qualified American Sign Language (ASL) interpreters. This degree prepares graduates for work in this dynamic field.
An interpreter is a fluent bilingual-bicultural professional who facilitates communication between those who do not share the same language or culture.
To be a sign language interpreter requires manual dexterity, critical thinking skills, visual-spatial recognition, excellent short- and long-term memory, and superior cognitive processing abilities in order to process information instantaneously at a level of bilingual and bicultural expertise beyond conversational fluency. For non-Deaf interpreters, this will also include auditory-processing capabilities.
Over the course of four years, students will continue to improve and hone both their English and American Sign Language proficiencies while studying to become interpreters.
This ASL-English Interpretation program focuses on seven areas of learning:
Language and culture
Field fundamentals
Interpreting skills
Research methods/trends
Ethics and professionalism
Breadth electives
Field and community experience
For applicants with a diploma or advanced diploma in American Sign Language – English interpretation, an advanced entry option is available. For details on how to apply, see the
Admission Requirements
tab.
Program Philosophy
The Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English) degree program aims to cultivate learners to become interpreters who are critical thinkers with unbiased communicative language and interpreting practices and an understanding of how intersectionality shapes interactions.
The program is committed to an anti-oppressive framework situated through Deaf-centric foundations of the program. This program utilizes a critical studies approach to anti-racism, anti-audism, and anti-ableism.
What does it take to be an American Sign Language – English Interpreter?
Is this program right for you?
Interpreting is a very rewarding but demanding field of work. Successful interpreters typically possess the following attributes:
a strong command of both English and American Sign Language
an excellent memory
the ability to concentrate and focus easily and for long periods of time
the ability to process and analyze information quickly under time constraints (cognitive processing skills)
the ability to multitask
versatility
willingness to be flexible
strong communication skills
excellent interpersonal skills
In preparation for field placement, students will be required to work in multiple small and large groups, both in classes and community settings. Attendance and participation are key elements of program success.
Download the C302 Applicant Questionnaire
Your Field Education Options
420-Hour Internship Experience (unpaid)
Students in George Brown's Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (ASL – English) program wishing to become successful in the field of interpreting should expect to dedicate a significant amount of time to developing their craft outside the classroom.
To help students transition their skills from a controlled classroom environment to the real world, students are required to complete an internship program. This senior internship, offered in the fall semester of fourth year, is approximately 420 hours (equivalent to 14 weeks). During this time students will apply their skills, abilities, and knowledge in a variety of environments.
Students will work under the close supervision of a professional interpreter, develop a greater understanding of community agencies and partnership opportunities for sign language interpreters and engage in research.
As most interpreters in Ontario are self-employed independent contractors, these opportunities are not typically paid positions. These intensive field opportunities are meant to provide a rich learning experience and the chance to strengthen interpreting skills.
VOLUNTEER STUDENT INTERPRETING SERVICES (GBC-VSIS)
In addition to field placement and internship, the fourth-year students provide limited Pro Bono interpreting services in authentic settings within the GTA by offering Volunteer Student Interpreting Services.
CLICK HERE TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE GBC-VSIS PROGRAM
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
If you are interested in a dynamic career that provides meaningful and varied work, then becoming an American Sign Language – English interpreter or Deaf interpreter is the career for you. Graduates of this program will find interpreting opportunities in a variety of sectors and venues as demand for interpreters is increasing in response to national and provincial legislation, including mandated implementation of the
Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA),
and the
Government of Canada's Bill C-81,
the
Accessible Canada Act.
Graduates will be prepared to work as ASL-English interpreters or Deaf interpreters in a number of private and public environments such as:
educational settings
medical settings
legal contexts
business interactions
social service agencies
A wide range of employment opportunities exist for interpreters. Established interpreters may hold such job titles as:
Deaf interpreter
ASL-English interpreter
Designated interpreter
ASL consultant
Conference interpreter
Community interpreter
Translator
This degree can serve as a pathway toward postgraduate studies.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
BINT 1001
American Sign Language I
BINT 1002
Deaf Studies
BINT 1003
English Communications for Interpreters
BINT 1004
Introduction to the Interpreting Profession
Select one Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
BINT 1101
American Sign Language II
BINT 1102
Cross-Cultural Studies
BINT 1103
Cognitive Processing Skills
BINT 2003
Sociolinguistics for Interpreters
Select one Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
BINT 2001
American Sign Language III
BINT 2004
Values, Ethics and Professional Practice
BINT 2005
Introduction to Translation and Discourse Analysis
BINT 2105
Dynamic Interactions in ASL
Select one Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
BINT 2002
Introduction to Research
BINT 2101
American Sign Language IV
BINT 2102
Interpreting I
BINT 2103
Interpreting Essentials
Select one Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
BINT 3001
American Sign Language V
BINT 3002
Interpreting II
BINT 3003
Interpreting Interaction: Community
BINT 3004
Interpreting Practicum Seminar I
BINT 3005
Interpreting Practicum Field I
Select one Liberal Studies Elective*
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
BINT 3102
Interpreting III
BINT 3105
Interpreting Practicum Seminar II
BINT 3106
Interpreting Practicum Field II
BINT 4001
American Sign Language VI
BINT 4003
Interpreting Interaction: IPE
Select one Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 7
Code
Course Name
BINT 4101
Interpreting and Technology
BINT 4102
Situated Learning: Interpreting Collaborations
BINT 4004
Research in Interpreting Studies I
420 Hours Internship Experience (unpaid) (Fall)
SEMESTER 8
Code
Course Name
BINT 3101
Dynamics in the Deaf Community: Contrastive Analysis
BINT 4002
Interpreting IV
BINT 4104
Research in Interpreting Studies II
Select one Liberal Studies Elective
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Analyze and critically apply current interpreting research trends as they inform meaning-based interpreting practices.
Analyze the power dynamics that affect human communication, including the impact of the interpreter’s decisions and influence.
Respect cross-cultural needs of participants in an interpreted interaction in a professional and ethical manner.
Articulate societal views of Deaf culture, the Deaf community, multiculturalism, oppression, audism, global history of Deaf people, sign language linguistics and language variations.
Use current research literature to analyze key issues relating to the practice and profession of interpreting.
Determine appropriate modes of interpreting using evidence-based practice, effective interpersonal and professional skills.
Perform effectively as an interpreter by incorporating current research and recognizing contextual factors including language and culture.
Perform accurate and effective translations, consecutive and simultaneous interpretations.
Use communicative language abilities in first and second language as required to accommodate specific dialogic interactions.
Use professional and ethical judgment in decision-making while respecting diversity, equity, equality and rights of all participants.
Engage in lifelong learning and reflective professional development.
Assess personal competencies and limitations in the use of multicultural and multi-contextual approaches to communication.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$8,464.00 *+
International Tuition
$21,005.00 **+
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
+ The tuition fee for this program does NOT include the cost of the work experience.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma with six grade 12 university (U) or university/college (M) courses, with a combined average of 65 per cent or higher
grade 12 English (U) with a grade of 65 per cent or higher
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 Math U or grade 11 Science (U) or grade 12 Science (M or U)
supplementary requirements as outlined below
OR
Mature student status: 19 years or older and no OSSD**
grade 12 English U with a grade of 65 per cent or higher
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 Math U or grade 11 Science U or grade 12 Science (M or U)
Combined average of English and Math/Science of 65 per cent or higher
Post-secondary credits in English and Math/Science will also be considered (specific courses only)
Supplementary requirements as outlined below
** There is no mature student testing in the required credits for degree programs. Mature applicants must have the English, Math and Science credits required. Additional information on where and how to upgrade can be found on the
English
,
Math
and
Science
upgrading pages.
Supplemental Requirements:
Non-Deaf applicants:
Basic ASL proficiency level equivalent to approximately 200 hours of ASL instruction and practical use***.
Deaf Interpreter applicants:
Advanced (native) comprehension and articulation of American Sign Language with awareness of connotative levels of meaning, along with idiomatic expressions and colloquialism use.
All applicants:
mandatory information session
applicant questionnaire
mandatory in-person screening session that evaluates ASL and pre-interpretation skills
*
letter of reference (to be submitted during screening session)
* You will need a set of earbuds or headphones as one of the assessments requires this equipment. Note: not applicable for Deaf applicants.
* Screening process comprised of assessments of both proficiency in American Sign Language (comprehension and articulation) and pre-interpretation skills. Applicants are required to demonstrate an understanding of the Deaf community and the field of sign language interpreting. Both academic requirements and all pre-requisites must be satisfied prior to registering for the screening session.
**
Preferred, but not mandatory.
The letter of reference from a Deaf person should address the following: your current ASL abilities, your involvement in the Deaf community and their reason for supporting your application to the program. The letter is to be from a Deaf person who is not a family member or a current faculty member of George Brown. The letter must include their signature and their contact information. The letter can be either a typewritten letter (Word or PDF document), or an ASL video letter, addressed to the program co-ordinators.
*** These competencies can be acquired through the American Sign Language and Deaf Studies certificate program at George Brown (C114), or an equivalent program, through part-time courses in the community.
Please note:
Subject to competition, applicants may be required to have grades/averages above the minimum.
There is no admissions assessment (test) for the English, math or science requirements.
Advanced Entry for Interpreting Diploma Graduates
Graduates of George Brown's three-year American Sign Language – English interpreter advanced diploma program and graduates of other ASL-English interpreting diploma programs across Canada and the U.S. will have a degree completion pathway that enables them to enter directly into the degree program.
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Semester 5 Advanced Entry:
Graduate of other ASL-English interpreting diploma programs across Canada and the U.S. with a minimum of 3.0 GPA.
Prior successful completion of a Research Course with a minimum passing grade of 65 per cent.
Prior completion of two Liberal Studies courses with a minimum passing grade of 65 per cent.
Screening interview that assesses ASL proficiencies and interpretation theory and skills.
Semester 7 Advanced Entry
Graduate of George Brown's three-year American Sign Language – English Interpreter Advanced Diploma Program with a minimum 3.0 GPA.
Prior successful completion of a Research Course with a minimum passing grade of 65 per cent.
Prior completion of two Liberal Studies courses with a minimum passing grade of 65 per cent.
Screening interview that assesses ASL proficiencies and interpretation theory and skills.
Please contact the program co-ordinators for more details about either degree completion pathway.
English Language Proficiency Required:
George Brown College ESL Level 9; TOEFL 84 overall and 21 in each skill band (online); IELTS 6.5 overall and 6.0 in each skill band; MELAB 85; CAEL overall 70 (writing 60); Please visit
English Proficiency page
for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a
Vulnerable Sector Check
completed, and this check must be renewed every six months before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Vulnerable Sector Check will not be able to start their field or clinical placement and will therefore be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program. Our agency partners have the final decision for students being allowed to practice in their agency.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting September 29, 2015. The college shall ensure that all students admitted to the above-named program during the period of consent will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Deaf and Deafblind Studies
Email:
communityservices@georgebrown.ca
Corene Kennedy
, Program Co-ordinator, Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English)
ckennedy@georgebrown.ca
Rhondda Reynolds
, Program Co-ordinator, Honours Bachelor of Interpretation (American Sign Language – English)
rreynolds@georgebrown.ca
International Students: Please contact the International Centre by visiting:
https://www.georgebrown.ca/international/contact-international-centre
If you require accommodations, please contact Accessible Learning Services by visiting:
https://www.georgebrown.ca/current-students/services/accessible-learning-services
For more information about George Brown College:
Contact George Brown College
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
American Sign Language and Deaf Studies (C114)
Deafblind & Intervenor Studies (C158)
"My professors are passionate about their work and support us tremendously. They not only teach us the skills we need to succeed in this program, but to be successful in life and in our careers as professional interpreters."
Nahed Dajjani
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.