Honours Bachelor of Food Studies Program (H317)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Food Studies
Code:
H317
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
4 years (8 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$10,905.00 * † ‡
International Tuition:
$24,339.00 ** † ‡
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
The Honours Bachelor of Food Studies embraces experiential learning as a key component of the program delivery. There is a 14-week 420-hour work-integrated learning opportunity between the second and third years. Students will also take field trips in the surrounding area and complete two 16-hour community-engaged learning placements as part of their coursework.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) (H315)
Culinary Management – Nutrition (H119)
Culinary Management (H100)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
The first four-year Honours Bachelor of Food Studies degree in Canada combining culinary arts and a comprehensive food studies curriculum.
Program Overview
This program is eligible for
a $1,000 entrance scholarship.
Examine challenges facing the food system with a focus on justice and equity, sustainability and health while mastering various culinary techniques in the
Honours Bachelor of Food Studies
program.
Full Description
Food choices now involve much more than what we will have for dinner. Chronic disease, waste, climate change, rapid urbanization, technological change, hunger, and inequity are issues everyone in the food sector must consider. In the
Honours Bachelor of Food Studies (H317)
program, you'll explore these issues with a focus on justice and equity, sustainability and health.
This four-year program provides the food leaders of tomorrow with the skills, insights and knowledge to succeed in this rapidly changing industry. Graduates will be positioned to succeed in a wide range of food-related occupations, including roles in culinary, education, tourism, recreation, health, food security, sustainability, economic development, agriculture, public policy and research. There are growing opportunities for careers informed by both culinary experience and versatile critical thinking.
In the classroom and beyond, students will be introduced to the vibrant world of food in a culturally diverse and inclusive environment. Students will participate in a paid co-op placement and community-engaged learning opportunities.
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Cooking up change-makers
Your Field Education Options
Take part in a robust externship. The Honours Bachelor of Food Studies embraces experiential learning as a key component of the program delivery. There is a 14-week, 420-hour work-integrated learning opportunity between the second and third years. Students will also take field trips in the surrounding area and complete two 16-hour community-engaged learning placements as part of their coursework. George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue independent industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the program's learning outcomes. This valuable work experience can be added to your resumé.
In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College strives to provide learning opportunities with real-world challenges and customers.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
The Honours Bachelor of Food Studies opens doors to diverse career pathways in the kitchen and beyond. Completion of this program will demonstrate your commitment to both culinary arts and understanding issues throughout the entire food system, distinguishing you from other chefs. The culinary skills you learn at George Brown are in demand by employers across Canada and internationally, and you will have the training to build a successful career at home and around the world.
While some degree graduates may start their careers in an entry-level position, they will have the knowledge and skills to advance their career pathways. Depending on the graduate’s focus and level of experience, possible career pathways include:
Employment Area
Possible Career Paths
Food services
caterer
executive chef, chef, sous chef, chef de partie
food blogger
food journalist
food product developer
food writer
market researcher
menu designer
sustainability officer
Community and non-profit organizations
campaign coordinator
community chef
community organizer
culinary consultant
farmers’ market coordinator
food justice educator
fundraiser
garden coordinator
grant writer
learning development specialist
outreach coordinator
policy analyst
program coordinator
researcher
urban agriculture coordinator
Government
policy development officer
program coordinator/manager
project coordinator/manager
public health promotions
public health specialist
research analyst
Education
community workshop coordinator
learning garden coordinator
school food program coordinator
Educational Pathways
Graduates of this program will be prepared to continue their studies post-degree in master's programs in the fields of environmental studies, food policy, justice studies, public health, gastronomy, education, community development, communication and media studies.
Graduates may also be eligible for direct entry into the
Culinary Arts – Italian
,
French Pastry
programs, as well as the
Food and Nutrition Management
program.
Please contact the program co-ordinator for further information.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOST 1068
Smart Serve
HOSF 1304
Introduction to Food Studies I
HOSF 1267
Culinary Skills I
HOSF 1269
Gastronomic Theory I
HOSF 1305
Communicating About Food
HOSF 2305
Food and Beverage Cost Control
HOSF 1145
Sanitation
HOSF 1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HOSF 1287
WHMIS
HOSF 1306
Introduction to Food Studies II
HOSF 1283
Butchery and Café Production
HOSF 1293
Culinary Skills II
HOSF 1295
Gastronomic Theory II
HOSF 1302
Food Literacy
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
HOSF 2303
Food for Special Events
HOSF 2307
Patisserie Production Management*
HOSF 2308
Food from the Land
HOSF 2310
Food Studies Research Methods
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
* seven-week course
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
HOSF 2402
Essential Flavours of the Modern Kitchen
HOSF 2403
Food from the Sea
HOSF 2405
Indigenous Food Systems
HOSF 2409
Food Movements
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
Work experience scheduled between semesters 4 and 5
Code
Course Name
HCOP 2021
Work-Integrated Food Studies Co-Op
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
HOSF 3502
Nutritional Epidemiology and Public Policy
HOSF 3504
Food Policy and Law
HOSF 3506
The Evolving Kitchen
HOSF 3508
Global Food and Beverage History
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
HOSF 3606
Food and the Nonprofit Sector
HOSF 3509
Sustainability in Food Service
HOSF 3607
Sustainable Consumption
HOSF 3608
Canadian Food History and Culture
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 7
Code
Course Name
HOSF 4702
Global Food Politics
HOSF 4704
Food, Equity and the City
HOSF 4706
Chefs as Agents of Change
HOSF 4708
Capstone I (Food Studies)
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 8
Code
Course Name
HOSF 4802
Special Topics in Food Studies
HOSF 4806
Strategies for the Black Box
HOSF 4809
Capstone II (Food Studies)
HOSF 4810
The Future of Food
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of this course, students will be able to:
Articulate the interconnected structures and functions of food systems at the local, national and international levels.
Analyze social, cultural, political and environmental influences on current and emerging food-related theory, policy and practice.
Recommend informed responses to both practical and scholarly issues and challenges using insights from food systems theory and the study of global cuisine.
Acquire foundational culinary skill proficiency and operational knowledge appropriate to enter into the culinary industry.
Integrate a healthy, equitable, and sustainable food systems perspective into culinary theory and practice.
Construct coherent arguments to address debates within the broad field of food studies.
Appraise research methodologies used across disciplines related to food studies.
Communicate effectively in a variety of formats appropriate to academic, government, non-profit, business and media environments.
Articulate how uncertainty, ambiguity and limits to knowledge influence perception and interpretation of debates in food studies and consider issues from multiple perspectives.
Demonstrate curiosity, initiative, integrity, collaboration, and social responsibility in personal and professional settings related to food.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$10,905.00 * † ‡
International Tuition
$24,339.00 ** † ‡
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
†
Fees for this program do not include the cost of the co-op work term.
‡
Additional Cost
Description
Cost
Small wares
$100–$300
Books
$1,600
Note: Semester 1 tuition fees include the cost of a culinary kit, safety shoes, and Chef School uniform.
Please view the following for a detailed list of what is contained in the culinary kit:
George Brown Culinary Kit Detailed List
George Brown Culinary Kit Visual
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses and any other selection criteria outlined below:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or equivalent with six grade 12 university (U) or university/college (M) courses, including grade 12 (U) English.
English grade 12 (U) with a grade of 65 per cent or higher.
An overall average of 65 per cent in the six grade 12 (U) or (M) courses.
OR:
Mature student status (19 years of age or older with no OSSD)***
grade 12 (U) English with a grade of 65 per cent or higher
post-secondary courses in English will be considered (certain courses only)
Subject to competition, applicants may be required to have grades/averages above the minimum score.
***There is no mature testing in the required credits for degree programs. Mature applicants must have the English credit required. Additional information on where and how to upgrade can be found on the
English
upgrading page.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a 7-year term starting December 21, 2020. The college shall ensure that all students admitted to the above-named program during the period of consent will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
English language proficiency
George Brown College ESL level 9; TOEFL 84 overall and 21 in each skill band (online); IELTS 6.5 overall and 6.0 in each skill band; MELAB 85; CAEL overall 70 (writing 60).
Proficiency in English communication is necessary for success in this program.
Please visit the
English proficiency
page for more details.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
HONOURS BACHELOR of FOOD STUDIES (H317)
For general Chef School inquiries, please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Register for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) (H315)
Culinary Management – Nutrition (H119)
Culinary Management (H100)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.