Honours Bachelor of Commerce Program (Culinary Management) (H315)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Commerce
Code:
H315
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
4 years (8 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$11,139.00 * † ‡
International Tuition:
$24,245.00 ** † ‡
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Chef School
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
We believe in learning by doing, and that is why we have incorporated work-integrated learning opportunities into all CHCA programs.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Culinary Management (H100)
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) (Bridging) (H316)
Honours Bachelor of Food Studies (H317)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
The only four-year Culinary Management Honours bachelor's degree in Canada.
Program Overview
This program is eligible for
a $1,000 entrance scholarship.
Develop the skills necessary to succeed as a chef, culinary manager or entrepreneur in the
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management)
program. Through a blend of theoretical and practical education, students will gain the skills and knowledge to achieve a successful career in today’s culinary and food industry. And you’ll gain real-world experience valued by employers.
Full Description
As a graduate of the
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) (H315)
program, you'll enter the workforce with the culinary knowledge, advanced management skills and business acumen needed for a successful career in modern Canadian kitchens and food companies or as an entrepreneur. And you'll gain real-world experience.
This program is Canada's only four-year culinary management honours bachelor's degree, and it prepares graduates for kitchen, operations management, food development or entrepreneur positions. Students will gain an understanding of the following key areas:
Culinary proficiency
Culinary theory
Accounting and finance
Marketing and communications
Human resources and risk management
Specialized business
Research
General knowledge (liberal studies)
George Brown College Chef School Student Standards and Expectations
Your Field Education Options
Take part in a unique and robust paid work placement. George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the program's learning outcomes. This valuable work experience can in turn be added to your resumé.
In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College strives to provide learning opportunities with real-world challenges and customers.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
A world of opportunities awaits you when you graduate. Completion of this program will demonstrate your level of commitment to cuisine, thus differentiating you from other chefs. The culinary skills you learn at George Brown are in demand by employers across Canada and internationally, and you will have the training to build a successful career at home or around the world.
While some degree graduates may start their careers in an entry-level position, they will have the knowledge and skills to expedite their career pathways. Depending on the graduate’s focus and level of experience, possible career pathways include:
Food Service Employment Areas
Possible Career Paths
Multi-Unit Food service
director of operations with culinary experience requirements
corporate/menu development chef
Retirement Facilities and Chains
director of food service
executive chef
director of food & beverage
Hospitality and Tourism
director of food & beverage
positions with various types of organizations such as attractions, convention centres, hotels, off-premise catering, etc.
Contract Food Service Management
corporate or regional chef
district manager
regional manager
regional vice-president
Food Processors and Brokers
development chef
sales representative
sales manager
Distributors
corporate chef
executive chef
Business Consulting
food service logistics
food and beverage consulting
food and beverage market research
Entrepreneurship
media work
event chef
owning a restaurant, catering services
Educational Pathways
Graduates of this program will be prepared to continue their studies post-degree in master's programs in the fields of business, gastronomy and environmental studies.
Graduates may also be eligible for direct entry into the
Culinary Arts – Italian
,
French Pastry
programs, as well as the
Food and Nutrition Management
program.
Please contact the program co-ordinator for further information.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOST 1068
Smart Serve
HOSF 1266
Introduction to Restaurant Management
HOSF 1267
Culinary Skills I
HOSF 1269
Gastronomic Theory I
HOSF 1275
Business Communications
HOSF 2305
Food and Beverage Cost Control
HOSF 1145
Sanitation
HOSF 1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HOSF 1287
WHMIS
HOSF 1302
Food Literacy
HOSF 1283
Butchery and Café Production
HOSF 1293
Culinary Skills II
HOSF 1295
Gastronomic Theory II
HOSF 2406
Principles of Marketing
Scheduled between semesters 2 and 3
Code
Course Name
HCOP 1011
Work-Integrated Learning I (WIL): Culinary
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
HOSF 1277
Fundamentals of Accounting
HOSF 2303
Food For Special Events
HOSF 2307
Patisserie Production Management*
HOSF 2309
Research Fundamentals
HOSF 2311
Catering and Menu Management
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
* seven-week course
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
HOSF 2402
Essential Flavours of the Modern Kitchen
HOSF 2404
Concepts of Customer Service
HOSF 1299
Managerial Accounting
HOSF 2313
Macroeconomics: Canada in the Global Environment
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
HOSF 3604
Finance
HOSF 3505
Market and Feasibility Research I
HOSF 3507
Strategic Managerial Communications
HOSF 3509
Sustainability in Food Service
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
Lower Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
HOSF 3602
Food Science and Nutrition
HOSF 3603
Market and Feasibility Research II
HOSF 3501
Human Resources Management
HOSF 3605
Statistics
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
Scheduled between semesters 6 and 7
Code
Course Name
EXTN2011
Work-Integrated Learning II (WIL): Personalized
SEMESTER 7
Code
Course Name
HOSF 4703
Restaurant Risk Management
HOSF 4705
Beverages, Sensory and Evaluation
HOSF 4707
Advanced Food Science and Nutrition
HOSF 4709
Strategic Revenue Management
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 8
Code
Course Name
HOSF 4804
Research and Development
HOSF 4806
Strategies for the Black Box
HOSF 4808
Capstone
Upper Liberal Studies Elective
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate must maintain good standing with a minimum 2.3 program GPA (67 per cent or above). Graduates will have reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Distinguish among and apply current practices from industry and scholarship relating to accounting, marketing, customer service, human resources, supply chain management, health and safety, costing and pricing, hospitality, and risk management.
Identify, appraise and/or apply various methods, skills, tools and systems used in a variety of disciplines related to culinary practice and study.
Research and analyze societal, environmental, cultural, economic, culinary and/or market demands at local, regional and international levels.
Collaborate effectively as part of a diverse culinary management team in order to develop strategies to realize organizational objectives in a variety of food service environments.
Drawing on fields of study and practice, develop and manage strategic partnerships, customer service and relationships.
Plan and execute fundamental contemporary cooking techniques that reflect an advanced knowledge of food theory and practice, nutrition and professional systems used in the culinary industry.
Use management theories and methodologies in order to provide recommendations for realizing organizational objectives specific to different kinds of culinary operations.
Develop a new food product, business and/or event, in order to facilitate market realization.
Apply advanced management techniques and theories to support large-scale, multi-unit culinary operations.
Monitor changing practices and evolving knowledge related to culinary management to select strategies for lifelong learning and professional advancement in the field of study.
Examine personal strengths, weaknesses, and knowledge limitations in order to develop strategies that promote growth and build leadership potential.
Communicate information and concepts using advanced verbal and written skills that reflect disciplinary norms.
Use qualitative and/or quantitative information to develop cogent arguments, make sound judgments and apply concepts, principles and techniques that inform or enhance diverse types of culinary operations.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$11,139.00 * † ‡
International Tuition
$24,245.00 ** † ‡
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
† Fees for this program do not include the cost of the co-op work terms (HCOP 1011, between semesters 2 and 3, and EXTN 2011, between semesters 6 and 7), which is approximately $500 each.
‡ Additional Cost
Description
Cost
Small wares
$100–$300
Books
$500–$1,000 per year
Note: Semester 1 tuition fees include the cost of a culinary kit, safety shoes, and Chef School uniform.
Please view the following for a detailed list of what is contained in the culinary kit:
George Brown Culinary Kit Detailed List
George Brown Culinary Kit Visual
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma with six grade 12 university (U) or university/college (M) courses, or equivalent,
including
: grade 12 (U) English
and
any grade 12 (U) Mathematics.
a grade of 60 per cent or higher in English and Math
an overall average of 65 per cent in six grade 12 (U) or (M) courses.
recommended courses: basic computer software applications.
OR
Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)**:
grade 12 (U) English
grade 12 (U) Mathematics
a grade of 65 per cent or higher is required in English and Math
post-secondary courses in English and Mathematics will be considered (certain courses only)
** There is no mature student testing in the required credits for degree programs. Mature applicants must have the English and Math credits required. Additional information on where and how to upgrade can be found on the
English
and
Math
upgrading pages.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
English language proficiency
George Brown College ESL Level 9; TOEFL 84 overall and 21 in each skill band (online); IELTS 6.5 overall and 6.0 in each skill band; MELAB 85; CAEL overall 70 (writing 60).
Proficiency in English communication is necessary for success in this program.
Please visit
English Proficiency page
for more details.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting October 11, 2016. The college shall ensure that all students admitted to the above-named program during the period of consent will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens, including nuts, dairy and shellfish, are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
HONOURS BACHELOR of COMMERCE (H315)
For general Chef School inquiries, please contact
CHCAStudentSupport@georgebrown.ca
.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Register for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Culinary Management (H100)
Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) (Bridging) (H316)
Honours Bachelor of Food Studies (H317)
The Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Culinary Management) program is the perfect balance of management and culinary skills. This four-year program prepared us for the industry so we could become strong leaders and skilled individuals. The way the program is built allowed us to create a strong foundation for the advanced courses we had throughout the years. We were able to learn every aspect of the hospitality industry not just the restaurant industry in these four- years. In the future, this will give the graduates a very flexible choice on their career path. The quality and academic levels of this program are of a very high standard, making this degree worth it. The knowledge of the professors and chefs we had in this program helped me to excel in my academic and culinary skills. The small class sizes were great because they allowed us to have a first-person connection to our professors. They all guided us and gave us extra help whenever we needed it. My favourite aspect of this program was the evolution it went through. From real-life case studies to the opportunity to create a business plan, we were always connected to the industry. The guest speakers we had in our courses helped us to get an insight into the industry we would be a part of. Even in our management classes, we were doing hands-on work like creating a business plan or solving current issues in our industry. Every year we knew what was happening in the industry, from sustainability to laws, to the cost of equipment. This connection became stronger when we had our externships in the first year and third year. When we came back from these externships, we were able to connect to our courses even more with the experience we gained in the real world. After graduating from this program, I feel ready and confident with the skillset and knowledge I gained. I am proud to be in the first group of graduates this program will have and I will always be grateful to all my professors for their constant support and guidance in our four-year journey.
Yasemin Gencay
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.