Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) Program (H311)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality)
Code:
H311
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
4 years (8 semesters plus 2 co-op terms)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$9,118.00 * † ‡
International Tuition:
$21,138.00 ** † ‡
Centre:
Hospitality & Culinary Arts
School:
Hospitality & Tourism Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Co-op (Paid)
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Event Planning (H141)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This program is eligible for
a $1,000 entrance scholarship.
Start your path to becoming a hospitality business leader or entrepreneur with the
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality)
program. We combine theoretical learning with practical, real-world experience to prepare you for managerial, supervisory and administrative positions in the hospitality industry.
Full Description
Continued advances in the hospitality industry have led to larger and more complex hospitality enterprises and increased demand for well-educated professionals with analytical skills capable of leading them.
The
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) (H311)
program teaches you technical skills related to the major components of a hospitality business, including operational processes, finance, human resources, marketing, facilities, risk management, corporate social responsibility and sustainability.
Prepare for career opportunities in diverse hospitality industry sectors, including accommodations, event management, food service, sports and recreation, and travel with training in analysis and problem-solving, critical thinking, integrated operations, customer management and international applications.
Students develop strong management and leadership abilities working on individual and group projects. And you'll gain real-world work experience with two co-op terms.
This program provides flexible learning with courses offered in a hybrid format throughout the program to accommodate paid work placements. Semesters seven and eight are delivered entirely online.
Your Field Education Options
George Brown College works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the program's learning outcomes. This valuable work experience can be added to your resumé.
In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide learning opportunities with real-world challenges and customers.
Applied Learning – Benefit from Hands-on Training
Co-operative education is an important component of this degree program. Students spend at least two four-month paid terms working full-time in the industry, giving them a chance to apply the knowledge they have acquired in a real-life, hands-on situation. Students obtain practical experience and further develop their skills—an asset for our graduates and their future employers. Students also establish valuable contacts with potential employers, and many graduates find full-time employment with their co-op employer.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of our Hospitality degree program can pursue a wide range of career opportunities across the hospitality sector. Many of our graduates are hired for supervisory and managerial positions soon after graduation, with starting salaries as high as $50,000, depending on experience, position and employer.
There are many career opportunities awaiting you in the diverse sectors of the hospitality industry:
travel (airlines, cruise ships, railways, bus coach, ecotourism)
accommodations (hotels, motels, resorts)
food service (restaurants, catering, clubs and managed services)
sports and recreation (attractions, gaming, parks, recreation)
assembly and event management (meetings, conventions, expositions, special events)
Educational Pathways
Student exchange:
The Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) program now offers a student exchange with Manchester Metropolitan University in Manchester, England. Eligible students may study for one or two semesters abroad in their second year of study.
Graduates of the program can continue their studies by pursuing a master's degree or postgraduate education.
Graduates of the Hospitality degree program have pursued advanced degrees with our partner universities, IMI and Manchester University, as well as institutions such as the University of Guelph, Toronto Metropolitan University, University of Waterloo, Royal Roads University and Queen's University. Acceptance to graduate studies is subject to institutions' admission criteria and entry requirements.
ARTICULATION OPTIONS – UPGRADE YOUR DIPLOMA
Do you have a two-year hospitality diploma? Ask about our articulation options into the Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) program, an opportunity to upgrade to a degree. You must have a minimum 2.7 GPA or higher to qualify. A special semester delivered from May to August will help you fast-track into the program. Visit the
School of Hospitality page
or contact the program coordinator.
Pathways from Diploma to Degree Program
Courses
Required Courses
Year 1
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
HOST 1195
Introduction to Business Management
HOST 1196
Organizational Behaviour
HOST 1197
Skills for Success
ACCT 1201
Financial Accounting
COMM 1201
Business Communication
HOST 1068
Smart Serve (online certificate)
HOSF 1145
Sanitation (online certificate)
HOSF 1146
Emergency First Aid/Heartsaver CPR (weekend course)
ELECTIVE
Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
HOST 1204
Introduction to the Global Hospitality Industry
ACCT 1202
Managerial Accounting
HRM 1201
Human Resources Management
MARK 1201
Marketing Management
ELECTIVE
Liberal Studies Elective
YEAR 2
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
BBUS 1007
Macroeconomics: Canada in Global Environment
HOST 2108
Tourism in a Global Community
HOST 2109
Food and Beverage Management
HOST 1302
Accommodation Management
ELECTIVE
Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
BBUS 1006
Microeconomics: Canada in Global Environment
HOST 2103
Customer Service
HOST 3114
Business and Hospitality Law
HOST 3103
Event Planning and Management
ELECTIVE
Liberal Studies Elective
WORK EXPERIENCE
Code
Course Name
HCOP 1001
Co-op Work Term I (minimum 14 weeks: 520 hours)
YEAR 3
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
HOST 2113
Financial Management
HOST 3102
Consumer Behaviour
HOST 3119
Decision-Making
COMM 2201
Intercultural Communications
LHUM 1204
Spanish I
Or
LHUM 1224
Mandarin I
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
HOST 3113
Strategic Revenue Management
HOST 4111
Competitive Strategy for Integrated Hospitality Enterprises
STAT 1202
Statistics
LHUM 1214
Spanish II
Or
LHUM 1225
Mandarin II
ELECTIVE
Liberal Studies Elective
WORK EXPERIENCE
Code
Course Name
HCOP 2001
Co-op Work Term II (minimum 14 weeks: 520 hours)
YEAR 4
SEMESTER 7
Code
Course Name
HOST 4007
Innovation and Creativity
HOST 4101
Research: Concepts and Application I
HOST 4104
Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility
HOST 3117
Sales Management
ELECTIVE
Liberal Studies Elective
SEMESTER 8
Code
Course Name
HOST 4102
New Venture Development
HOST 4103
E-Hospitality
HOST 4112
Research: Concepts and Application II
HOST 4113
Cases in Global Business Management
HOST 4117
Managing Uncertainty: Enterprise Risk Management*
HOST 4118
Managing Uncertainty: Crisis Management*
* seven-week courses
To graduate, students must have a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.3 (grade of C+). The course passing grade is D.
Liberal studies courses (listed as electives) are an important part of the program, designed to increase awareness of the society and culture in which students live and work. They strengthen skills in areas of critical analysis, problem-solving and communication through an exploration of topics of broad-based personal and societal importance.
Liberal studies classes
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Assess the impact and implications of external environmental factors on the hospitality industry, its sectors, organizations and stakeholders.
Explain the results of original research that has been conducted using social science research principles and methods.
Apply management knowledge and technical ability for effective operation and organization of a variety of hospitality enterprises.
Justify ideas generated, decisions made and actions taken to address business opportunities, challenges, risks and crises.
Interpret quantitative and qualitative data to support business decisions, operations, and strategic initiatives.
Present information clearly, concisely, persuasively, professionally and respectfully using appropriate and alternative modes/means of communication in a variety of hospitality contexts and situations.
Display ethical behaviour and social responsibility in personal and professional pursuits.
Design creative marketing, sales and customer service strategies for chosen market segments.
Apply strategies to keep current in the field, respond effectively to change, and support personal and professional development.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$9,118.00 * † ‡
International Tuition
$21,138.00 ** † ‡
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
†
Fees for this program do not include the cost of the co-op work term.
‡Additional Cost
Textbooks, manuals, etc – $575 (fees are subject to change).
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma with six grade 12 university (U) or university/college (M) courses or equivalent,
including
grade 12 (U) English
and
any grade 12 (U) Mathematics
a grade of 60 per cent or higher in English and Math
an overall average of 65 per cent in six grade 12 (U) or (M) courses
recommended courses: basic computer software applications
OR
mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)**:
grade 12 (U) English
grade 12 (U) Mathematics
A grade of 65 per cent or higher is required in English and Math
Post-secondary courses in English and Mathematics will be considered (certain courses only)
recommended courses: basic computer software applications
** There is no mature student testing available in the required credits for degree programs. Mature applicants must have the English and Math credits required. Additional information on where and how to upgrade can be found on the
English
and
Math
upgrading pages.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice, and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
English language proficiency required
George Brown College ESL Level 9; TOEFL 84 overall and 21 in each skill band (online); IELTS 6.5 overall and 6.0 in each skill band; MELAB 85; CAEL overall 70 (writing 60)
Proficiency in English communication is necessary for success in this program.
Please visit
English Proficiency page
for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Applicants with a two-year hospitality diploma
Do you have a minimum two-year hospitality diploma? Consider our (H312) Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) bridging program. Qualified applicants who have achieved an overall GPA of 2.7 in their diploma program, and a 3.0 GPA in specific transferable courses, may be considered for this program. Qualified applicants will take bridging courses from May to August and will then be granted advanced standing into the Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) program for September. Please visit
Diploma to Degree page
for more information.
Health Policy
Students should be aware that various allergens, including nuts, dairy and shellfish, are routinely used in practical labs. Students should also note that George Brown College is sensitive to religious observances; however, while products purchased for production and consumption meet all provincial and federal regulations, they may not meet specific dietary laws related to halal and kosher foods.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting December 19, 2019.
The college shall ensure that all students admitted to the above-named program during the period of consent will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
DOMESTIC STUDENT ADMISSIONS
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions web page
.
FINANCIAL/FEES
For inquiries about OSAP, bursaries, scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid web page
.
Honours Bachelor of Business Administration (Hospitality) (H311)
For general School of Hospitality and Tourism Management related inquiries, please contact
chcastudentsupport@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Join us for an upcoming Discovery Day, where you will learn more about your area of interest, get a first-hand look at our facilities and meet with representatives from George Brown College.
Sign up for our Open House Discovery Day
Explore related programs:
Tourism and Hospitality Management (H130)
Hospitality – Hotel Operations Management (H133)
Event Planning (H141)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.