Honours Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene) Program (S305)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Honours Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene)
Code:
S305
Credential:
Honours Bachelor's Degree
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 Semesters
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$11,081.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Dental Health
Location:
Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Restorative Dental Hygiene (Postgraduate) (S400)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Dental Technology (S100)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
George Brown College is proud to be the first Ontario college to offer a dental hygiene degree completion program designed specifically for graduates of a community college Dental Hygiene three-year Advanced Diploma or two-year Diploma program.
Program Overview
This program is eligible for
a $1000 entrance scholarship.
The
Honours Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene)
is an online one-year degree completion program in dental hygiene. Apply to this program if you are a dental hygienist interested in expanding your career and educational pathway opportunities.
PLEASE NOTE: This program intake starts in May 2025. To begin your studies in May 2024, apply to the 2023/24 intake.
Full Description
The
Honours Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene) (S305)
is the first Ontario college degree completion program designed specifically for graduates of a community college dental hygiene program.
Apply to this program if you are a graduate of an Ontario College Advanced Diploma (three-year) or an Ontario College Diploma (two-year) program in Dental Hygiene from an accredited publicly funded program with a minimum GPA of 3.0 and are interested in broadening your career opportunities beyond traditional clinical practice.
While clinical practice is the primary focus of the Dental Hygiene diploma program, this fully online degree completion program will help you develop advanced competencies in oral health advocacy, health promotion and critical decision-making.
Students will be required to attend live/synchronous (online) classes approximately 1.5 to 2.5 days each week. A detailed schedule will be provided at the beginning of each semester. As this is a full-time program, students should expect to spend several hours each week in self-study to support their coursework. (Note: schedules are subject to change)
About the Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene) program
one-year (three-semester) program
starts in May
online delivery includes both synchronous (live) and asynchronous (self-paced) learning
Main areas of in-depth study:
complex oral health-care needs
health promotion
oral health-related policy and advocacy
teaching methodologies
research
evidence-based decision-making
disease processes
emerging trends in oral health care
Having developed your skills in these subject areas, you will be prepared to work effectively within a collaborative health-care team that includes working with individual clients, other health-care providers and the broader community on complex health-care issues.
Capstone project
This online degree program has been designed to help build your confidence as you expand your knowledge of complex oral health-care needs.
In Semester 1, you will develop foundational learning that will lay the groundwork for more complex decision-making and critical thinking skills required in the second and third semesters.
In Semester 3, you will select and study an area of personal interest for your self-directed capstone project.
Areas of interest may include:
community health programming
educational course/program development
emerging trends in oral health care
PLEASE NOTE:
This program is not designed to advance clinical skills and has no clinical component. For students interested in expanding their clinical scope of practice, please visit our
Restorative Dental Hygiene
postgraduate program page for details.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Career pathways may include positions in:
oral public health care
policy development
health-care advocacy
education
sales industry
Industry
The oral health industry in Canada is expanding to improve access to care. Dental hygienists have been identified as playing a critical role in this process. Graduates of this program will be positioned to take on new roles in oral health care as they emerge.
Educational Pathways
As a graduate of the Honours Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene) program, you can consider pursuing a master's degree in the following areas of study:
health sciences
applied health sciences
applied health services research
public health
health promotion
health professions education
community health
transitional research in health sciences
rehabilitation services and humanities
Please note:
While you will be eligible to apply to various master's programs, you will be responsible for meeting the specified admission requirements for each program. Admission cannot be guaranteed.
Courses
Required Courses
Semester 1
Course Code
Course Title
DENT 3046
Introduction to Statistics
COMM 3010
Critical Thinking and Scholarly Writing for Health Sciences
LHUM 1203
The Pleasure of Inquiry:Philosophy
Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 2
Course Code
Course Title
DENT 3047
Health Promotion 1: Advanced Principles of Health Promotion
DENT 3048
Pedagogical and Instructional Design in Dental Hygiene
DENT 3049
Critical Research Practices in Oral Health
DENT 3050
Advanced Practice in Clinical Oral Health Science
Liberal Studies Elective
Semester 3
Course Code
Course Title
DENT 3051
Oral Health Policy: Past, Present and Future
DENT 3052
Health Promotion 2: Application to Community Practice
DENT 3053
Leadership in the Dental Hygiene Profession
DENT 3054
Capstone: Exploring Issues in the Science and Practice of Dental Hygiene
Detailed Course Outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
A graduate of the Honours Bachelor of Science in Dental Hygiene should be able to:
Investigate the impact of the tensions between evidence, best practices, protocols, and various stakeholder perspectives on decision-making at the individual and community level.
Incorporate knowledge and respect for the unique features of culture and population diversity on oral health outcomes.
Develop sustainable and community-driven strategies to advocate for systems level change in advancing oral health equity.
Design educational and training interventions for various practice settings using learner-centered curriculum design and delivery models.
Integrate systems level thinking into community-based oral health promotion programs and program evaluations.
Construct pathways for cross referral and interdisciplinary collaborations to address common risk factors and broader determinants of health.
Integrate the natural sciences of oral disease with the behavioural and social sciences to support the management of complex care and disease prevention.
Engage in the stewardship of the dental hygiene profession to facilitate sustainable change within the organizational, government, and political context.
Develop communication strategies to participate in professional discourse and disseminate key concepts and scholarly works to audiences inside and outside the profession.
Manage therapeutic and ongoing supportive services for clients, including those with medically complex needs through the life stages*
Construct self-directed personal development and professional practice improvement plans to address identified gaps
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$11,081.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Only graduates of an Ontario College Advanced Diploma (three-year) or an Ontario College Diploma (two-year) program in Dental Hygiene from an accredited publicly funded program, e.g. George Brown or other community colleges, will be considered; limited positions for graduates from Ontario publicly funded ‘1+1’ programs will be considered on a case by case basis; out of province graduates will be considered based on equivalent criteria outlined below.
Three-year Ontario College Advanced Diploma in Dental Hygiene from an accredited publicly funded program with a 3.0 GPA or higher
OR Two-year Ontario College Diploma in Dental Hygiene from an accredited publicly funded program with a 3.0 GPA or higher and a minimum of eight years clinical experience in the field of dental hygiene (resume required), and the successful completion of a Research Methods course at the post-secondary level from a recognized publicly funded institution
OR One-year Dental Assisting plus One-year Ontario College Diploma in Dental Hygiene from an accredited publicly funded program with a 3.0 GPA or higher, and consistent, demonstration of clinical or related practice experience in the field of dental hygiene, and academic preparation at the post-secondary level in health, education or science (resume required), and the successful completion of a Research Methods course at the post-secondary level from a recognized publicly funded institution (to be completed prior to commencing program)
Please note: It is recommended applicants with a two-year diploma, or ‘1+1’ programs,  register into a Research Methods course after receiving a conditional offer of admission from the college.
Please note: Subject to competition, applicants may be required to have grades above the minimum stated. This program has an Equal Consideration Deadline of December 8th, 2023, for qualified applicants. Applications received after the Equal Consideration Deadline will be reviewed on a first come first served basis.
George Brown has been granted a consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this applied degree for a seven-year term starting August 9, 2022. The college shall ensure that all students admitted to the above-named program during the period of consent will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Contact 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 or E-mail
sdhprograms@georgebrown.ca
for program information.
Explore related programs:
Restorative Dental Hygiene (Postgraduate) (S400)
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Dental Technology (S100)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.