Human Services Foundations Program (A113)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Human Services Foundations
Code:
A113
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,726.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,945.00 **
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Work & College Preparation
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Social Service Worker (C119)
Community Worker (C101)
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
As part of the School of Work and College Preparation commitment to student success, students in this program receive individual support that includes access to a career and academic pathway advisor and the option to join a peer learning group.
Program Overview
George Brown College’s Human Services Foundations (A113)
is a two-semester program designed to kick-start your career journey. In a supportive learning environment, you'll strengthen your academic skills and be ready for an entry-level role in human services or further education in a variety of human services-related diploma programs. You'll learn about sociology and psychology and improve your communication and teamwork skills, while understanding how systemic issues affect individuals and communities. Together with classmates, you'll explore personal and professional goals and career pathway options for a successful career in human services.
Full Description
George Brown College’s Human Services Foundations (A113)
certificate program will give you the academic skills you need to thrive in human services programs and related career pathways.
This program will give you an in-depth understanding of human behaviour through psychology, sociology, and anti-oppressive practice––a foundation that will help you succeed in the classroom and in human services.
Working in small groups, you'll learn how to build positive relationships in a diverse and inclusive environment through activities that focus on collaboration and communication.
In the Human Services Foundations program, you'll learn:
to think critically by applying effective communication and research skills to present information in a factual, confident, and objective manner
to identify the systemic barriers that impact equity and inclusion for individuals and community groups in Canada
the role human services professionals play in removing systemic barriers
the many career pathway options in the human services sector
to make informed decisions about your future academic and professional goals
academic and life skills that will help you succeed in college and beyond
strategies for wellness, lifelong learning, and self-development
Support available for students in the School of Work and College Preparation includes:
Access to a
Student Success Counsellor
who can help you overcome any challenges you may face while at college
Meeting with a
Pathway Advisor
to discuss your specific academic and career goals and help you explore potential pathways.
Support from a weekly
Peer Learning
Group, facilitated by a graduate of the program who is a current student in one of our diploma programs.
For a list of George Brown’s human services sector–related programs that you may qualify for upon graduation from the (A113) program, click the
Career and Postgraduate Study Opportunities
tab on the left side of this page.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Educational Pathways
Human Services Foundations (A113)
graduates who wish to pursue further study at George Brown College, will be exempt from repeating College English (COMM 1007) and one General Education Elective (GNED) course.
(A113) graduates may consider applying to one of these human services career-focussed programs:
American Sign Language and Deaf Studies (C114)
Assaulted Women’s and Children’s Counsellor/Advocate (C137)
Behavioural Science Technician (C146)
Child and Youth Care (C133)
Community Worker (C101)
Deafblind & Intervenor Studies (C158)
Early Childhood Education (C100)
Recreation Management in Gerontology (C152)
Social Service Worker (C119)
PLEASE NOTE
: There are a limited number of seats available in these programs and admission is not guaranteed.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
CARE 1083
Human Services Overview
PSY 1083
Foundations of Psychology 1
COUN 1007
Group Process
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication
PREP 1017
Personal and Career Development
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
PSY 1084
Foundations of Psychology 2
PREP 1009
Introduction to Research
PREP 1025
Speaking with Confidence
GSSC1064
Ableism, Mental Health & Oppression: Sociological Perspectives
SWRK1075
Mindfulness & Wellbeing
SWRK1076
Thriving in Relationships
GNED
General Education Elective
General Education Electives
The School of Work and College Preparation provides applicants and students access to a Pathway Advisor and a Student Success Specialist.
The Pathway Advisor provides students with information about upgrading options, pre-programs and articulation agreements, and helps facilitate the transition into further post-secondary programs. For more information, visit
School of Work and College Preparation
.
The Student Success Specialist assists students to meet their academic and career goals by providing general and personalized success strategies, peer learning groups, and college-wide resources. For more information, please contact Katrina Kieley at 416-415-5000, ext. 6298 or email
kkieley@georgebrown.ca
.
Detailed course outlines
Articulation Agreement
Human Services Foundations (A113) students who want to enter the workforce directly upon graduation can work with our community partner,
PTP Adult Learning & Employment Programs
, who provide training and employment support.
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Discuss the roles, responsibilities, career opportunities, academic and personal requirements for success in the Community Services and Child Studies field.
Apply culturally sensitive communication and interpersonal skills to support team functioning in academic and professional settings with the ability to engage in self-reflection.
Explain major theoretical models of behaviour associated with the study of psychology.
Apply the appropriate client service strategies according to client behaviour/preference.
Select the Community Services and Child Studies field best suited to personal and career interest.
Explain how academic strengths, needs and personal health factors affect success and wellness in a college environment.
Utilize written and verbal communication skills specific to the Community Services and Child Studies field.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,726.00 *
International Tuition
$17,945.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.  This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Pathway Advisor
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2562
Email:
preparation@georgebrown.ca
.
Learn more about our
college preparation programs and work preparation programs
Human Services Foundations Program Co-ordinator
Ashley Booth (
abooth@georgebrown.ca
)
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
The Pre-Community Services program is taught at our St. James Campus at 341 King St. E., Toronto, Ontario. Sign up for an
information session
, book a
campus tour
or explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Social Service Worker (C119)
Community Worker (C101)
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
As a Newcomer and International Student, I arrived in Canada excited and eager to be victorious in my new path. However, every new experience comes with insecurities and challenges. The Pre-Community Service program at George Brown College provided me with tools to develop my skills and the confidence to pursue my educational and professional goals. I received significant support from my professors, my classmates and the services available by the institution.
Andre Luiz Santos Carvalho
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.