Interdisciplinary Design Strategy Program (Postgraduate) at the Brookfield Sustainability Institute (G414)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Interdisciplinary Design Strategy
Code:
G414
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
9 months
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$13,273.00 *
International Tuition:
$29,520.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Design
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Students have ten (10) hours (Semester 1) and fifteen (15) hours (Semester 2) per week of paid consulting work, within the BSI's Global Solutions Studio (GSS), mentored by the GSS's Director/Senior Staff.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Design Management (Postgraduate) (G401)
Interactive Media Management (Postgraduate) (G412)
Graphic Design (G102)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Each September, a small group of students begins a nine-month program in Interdisciplinary Design Strategy at the Brookfield Sustainability Institute (BSI), where they work as a team to research, design and realize a real-world project.
Full Description
The Brookfield Sustainability Institute (BSI) has pioneered its Interdisciplinary Design Strategy Program (IDSP) postgraduate-level curriculum using a design-based educational model that fosters learning across disciplines, integrating specialized knowledge and breaking down geographic, cultural and social barriers. The institute offers students the demands of a real project and the intellectual and creative rigour required to undertake it. Each September, a small group of students begins a nine-month graduate certificate program,
IDSP,
where they work as a team to research, design and realize a real-world project. Initiated in 2003 under the BSI's predecessor, the Institute Without Boundaries (IwB), this program delves into the methods and practices of design research, strategy and social innovation. It is a unique educational experience and is offered by George Brown College in partnership with leading designers and industry.
Transform the world
Our vision at the BSI is to create smart sustainable solutions for a better future. We foster partnerships with government, businesses and non-profits, to develop applied solutions that tackle industry challenges in the fight against climate change. We believe design is a tool that can affect positive change. This ideology encourages values and design outcomes that are intelligent, ethical, sustainable, inclusive and universally accessible. We see the designer as a problem solver, with the ability to affect positive change for humanity. Our aim for IDSP graduates is a new breed of designer who can articulate possibilities – one who is, in the words of Buckminster Fuller, a "synthesis of artist, inventor, mechanic, objective economist and evolutionary strategist."
Cross-boundary, Interdisciplinary
This program will accept strong candidates representing different fields – for example, a geographer, an economist, an artist, an architect, a journalist and others – all of whom see the potential for design to change the world. Students will collaborate within an interdisciplinary team, to tackle real-world challenges within an overarching research project, create comprehensive proposals and present recommendations to key stakeholders. Through collaborative practices, this program provides a systemic and in-depth knowledge of integrated design strategies, critical awareness and advanced design methodologies to solve the most pressing global challenges.
Broaden horizons
Projects at the Brookfield Sustainability Institute focus on learning through participation in every aspect of a project, assuming a variety of roles, and actively engaging with project partners. Project work may involve travel to collaborate with communities outside of GBC. Some examples of the places we’ve been include Matapalo (Costa Rica), Lota (Chile), Milan (Italy), Dublin (Ireland), New York City and Chicago. Students are responsible for some additional travel expenses for projects like these.
Real World Ready
The IDSP's major project acts as a thread that connects all IDS courses, giving students a unique research and design process, that provides a basis for researching, framing, solving problems and communicating design outcomes.
2023-24 Major Project
"Urban Food Security":
Our current student cohort is working through an interdisciplinary lens — business, design, political, social, sustainability and technology — to create a smart sustainable urban agriculture model and pilot for Toronto. Food insecurity already affects one in five Torontonians. With Ontario set for a 16 per cent population increase by 2035, we expect the cost of urban living and density to increase; these, coupled with an existing affordable housing crisis, will work to exacerbate the food insecurity problem. This year's project goals include: increasing opportunities for stakeholders to access or grow food ingredients, creating food systems that are supportive of natural ecology and permaculture, considering policy/finance/business models for a successful and scaleable design pilot and incorporating the use of smart technology/electronic sensors/IOT devices to ensure adequate light, heat and nutrients while reducing costs.
Prior Major Projects:
Massive Change:
the Future of Global Design, which resulted in a book and travelling exhibition. The World House Project, a three-year initiative, looked at housing systems that are globally responsible and locally appropriate. Students and faculty developed housing models for Canada and Costa Rica that are sustainable, intelligent, universal and affordable.
City Systems.
The objective was to explore, dissect and re-imagine the complexities of urban life. Over the course of four years, we partnered with the Toronto Community Housing Corporation on a community rejuvenation proposal for Flemingdon Park; the municipality of Lota (Chile) and its citizens on a project about proactive local action following the earthquake in 2010; the City of Markham on a “change lab” for community building and innovation; and Dublin City Council on “Our Dublin,” a civic engagement program to create transparency and clearer communication between city government and the public.
Regional Ecologies
, looking at urbanization as a regional phenomenon. In year one, the Institute focused on the three gateway cities of Toronto, New York and Chicago. In year two, we began the next chapter of Regional Ecologies, Divided Places, examining regions characterized by sharp differences in wealth, infrastructure and density where virtual and physical segmentation creates stark social, economic and political inequalities. In year three, we explored "Interstitial Zones." These areas are commonly defined as rural, but they are "in-between" sites that can also include suburbs, agricultural zones, industrial hubs and small-scale craft production areas and towns. We partnered with the Kerry County Council to design strategies for rural areas in southwest Ireland.
Symbiotic Regions:
Focused on the challenge to demonstrate how cities can co-operate at a regional scale to better deliver services, attract investment and create more resilient social and physical infrastructure for living regionally. The partner was Waterfront Toronto.
Toronto Global, Neptis Foundation and the Institute for Competitiveness and Prosperity to rethink the Toronto Region as a unified economic region and catalyst for attracting investment.
Learn by doing
Students will engage in a full range of creative work necessary for interdisciplinary design strategy, from research and writing to design and production, and will learn everything necessary to realize these outcomes. In addition, the IDSP provides opportunities to its students, for 10-15 hrs/week of paid work within the BSI's Global Solutions Studio (GSS), under the mentorship of the GSS leadership team.
Join The Movement
For more information, visit
https://www.brookfieldsustainabilityinstitute.com/
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates from Interdisciplinary Design Strategy at the Brookfield Sustainability Institute may find employment in a variety of organizations including:
not-for-profits
cultural institutions
government
private corporations
private enterprise or consulting service
Our recent graduates have secured employment worldwide in organizations such as Doctors without Borders, Art Gallery of Ontario, IDEO in California, Ministry of Culture (Costa Rica), Frog Design (New York) and Bruce Mau Design.
Educational Pathways
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
DESN 4003
Design Project 1: Communications
DESN 4012
Design Project 2: Product, Systems and Services
DESN 4005
Design Project 3: Environment
DESN 4007
Design Issues, History and Theory
DESN 4008
Integrated Design Process: Tools, Strategies, Methods and Practices
DESN 4009
Charrettes I
DESN 4010
Major Project: Preparation
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
DESN 4021
Major Project: Development
DESN 4003 and DESN 4005 and DESN 4007 and DESN 4008 and DESN 4009 and  DESN 4010 and DESN 4012
DESN 4022
Major Project: Communication
DESN 4003 and DESN 4005 and DESN 4007 and DESN 4008 and DESN 4009 and DESN 4010 and DESN 4012
DESN 4024
Charrettes II
DESN 4009 and DESN 4010 and DESN 4008
DESN 4026
Design Strategies: Professional Practice
DESN 4010 and DESN 4008
DESN 4027
Integrated Design Process II
DESN 4008 and DESN 4010
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Articulation Agreement
Students who successfully complete the graduate certificate in Interdisciplinary Design Strategy at the Brookfield Sustainability Institute, George Brown College, are eligible to apply for advanced entry into a
Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Design Strategies
offered by the Institute of Art, Design + Technology in Dún Laoghaire, Ireland.
Learn more about this opportunity
.
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Apply universal and sustainable design principles to complex global problems in order to create intelligent solutions that address environmental, social and economic challenges.
Manage an Integrated Design Process to deliver human-centred design strategy projects for government, corporations and nonprofit organizations.
Design collaboratively in an interdisciplinary studio environment to complete environmental, communication, product, service and system design projects.
Apply primary and secondary research methodologies to the design process using a think/make practice model to achieve project outcomes that meet user needs.
Adhere to the professional practices of a design studio in order to facilitate the success of design teams in achieving project results.
Participate in a multiphase design process in order to create a holistic, integrated and realistic design project.
Liaise and manage the design process to provide solutions for clients, including design, documentation, tendering, fabrication and delivery.
Present research results and design solutions to a diverse audience utilizing effective communication strategies.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$13,273.00 *
International Tuition
$29,520.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials (non-refundable), student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Some specialized programs have higher tuition fees which will be specified on official College invoices.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
diploma or bachelor's degree
applicant questionnaire
*
resumé*
digital portfolio*
* Qualified applicants will be invited to complete the online application questionnaire, including links to view or download a resumé and portfolio.
Details on these supplementary requirements will be communicated at a later date to qualified applicants, as part of the review process.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
Note: This program continues to accept applications until the seats are filled, which is typically July or August before the September start date. Check the
program availability page
for program status.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Brookfield Sustainability Institute
Phone: 416-415-5000
Email:
IDSP@georgebrown.ca
Academic Coordinator, IDSP, Brookfield Sustainability Institute (BSI), Sandhya Casson,
Sandhya.casson@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is part of The Brookfield Sustainability Institute located at our
Waterfront Campus
, at
3 Lower Jarvis St.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Brookfield Sustainability Institute & School of Design Building
The Brookfield Sustainability Institute resides in a new 103,000-square-foot facility in the Daniels Waterfront – City of the Arts development. This state-of-the-art building supports academic programs and industry projects with features such as:
virtual and augmented reality lab
usability and testing lab
Future Ways of Living lab
peer tutor lab
digital sandbox
incubators
prototyping and workshop spaces
design and innovation showcase spaces
Come and have your questions answered, learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom at one of our
information sessions
. You can also
book a campus tour
.
Explore related programs:
Design Management (Postgraduate) (G401)
Interactive Media Management (Postgraduate) (G412)
Graphic Design (G102)
“This experience has not only helped me gain new skills and prepared me for my future life, it has also enabled me to be part of creative, innovative and multifaceted projects that I’m proud of.”
Michael Esteras
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.