Interactive Media Management Program (Postgraduate) (G412)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Interactive Media Management
Code:
G412
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$15,974.00 *
International Tuition:
$32,880.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Design
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Marketing Management – Digital Media (Postgraduate) (B433)
Design Management (Postgraduate) (G401)
Graphic Design (G102)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Interactive Media Management
one-year graduate certificate program responds to a growing need within the design industry for a new skill set––one that crosses the traditional disciplinary boundaries of advertising, industrial, graphic, and new media design.
Full Description
The
Interactive Media Management
one-year graduate certificate program empowers you with the latest real-time interactive tools and technologies. As these technologies are integrated into public and commercial settings like museums and retail environments, as well as education and medical settings, you need to have knowledge of interface design, information visualization, and virtual spaces. As a designer, it's your mission to create friendly systems and interfaces that dramatically improve the lives of consumers and sellers alike.
Combining design education with software instruction and hands-on workshops, this program uses existing and emerging display technologies to create interactive design strategies. You'll also learn about best-practice examples and real-world models. We'll guide you as you generate a unique design strategy and test it through an applied project, with the goal of developing a fully functional, interactive demonstration prototype ready to share with a public audience.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
As a graduate, you can go on to a career designing or managing design in the digital media sector, or in your own business. After completing this program, you'll have the specific skills and expertise to work in roles such as:
creative directors
multimedia designers/specialists
user interface designers
design consultants
project managers
web designers
web developers
Educational Pathways
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
DESN 1051
Web Design & Development I
DESN 1055
Interactive Design & Systems I
DESN 1056
Media Production I
DESN 1058
Production Management I
DESN 1103
Prototyping I
DESN 1105
3D Design I
DESN 1107
Interactive Production Project I
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
DESN 1061
Web Design & Development II
DESN 1051
DESN 1065
Interactive Design & Systems II
DESN 1055
DESN 1066
Media Production II
DESN 1056
DESN 1113
3D Design II
DESN 1105
DESN 1115
Prototyping II
DESN 1103
DESN 1117
Interactive Production Project II
DESN 1158
Production Management II
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
Prerequisite
DESN 1088
Studio Entrepreneurship
DESN 1089
Interactive Experiential Thesis
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Facilitate effective completion of both individual and collaborative interactive media projects.
Use and evaluate best practices and tools to design and develop dynamic, rich media content.
Conduct and evaluate a thorough assessment of the requirements of a complex interactive media project.
Coordinate the development, budgeting, planning and professional presentation of a complex interactive media project.
Design and coordinate a complex media project (interface, navigation, graphics, text treatment) using best practice design and development principles and applying conceptual and theoretical frameworks.
Manage the building of effective and dynamic complex websites and/or mobile applications.
Propose solutions to ethical and professional issues arising in an online environment.
Apply research and conceptual skills to propose optimal solutions for mobile/multimedia/web development problems and facilitate these skills within the project team.
Provide creative leadership that results in the effective design, development and implementation of complex interactive media projects.
Evaluate the financial, technical and artistic success of a complex interactive media project and present recommendations for improvement.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$15,974.00 *
International Tuition
$32,880.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials (non-refundable), student service and ancillary fees for the
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
college diploma or bachelor's degree, or demonstrated competence through related work experience (resumé required)
portfolio (digital portfolio accepted)*
application questionnaire*
online interview*
* Qualified applicants will be invited to complete the application questionnaire and submit a portfolio electronically. Details on these supplementary requirements will be communicated at a later date to qualified applicants, as part of the review process. Qualified applicants may also be invited for an interview.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the College level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission. In addition, applicants who are accepted to the program based solely on their work experience will be required to provide proof of English language proficiency at the college level, and may be required to write the George Brown College English admission assessment.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Design
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 3129
Email:
game@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is part of our
School of Design
, located at our
Waterfront Campus
, at
3 Lower Jarvis St.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
School of Design Building
The School of Design resides in a new 103,000-square-foot facility in the Daniels Waterfront – City of the Arts development. This state-of-the-art building supports academic programs and industry projects with features such as:
virtual and augmented reality lab
usability and testing lab
Future Ways of Living lab
peer tutor lab
digital sandbox
incubators
prototyping and workshop spaces
design and innovation showcase spaces
Come and have your questions answered, learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom at one of our
information sessions
. You can also
book a campus tour
.
Explore related programs:
Marketing Management – Digital Media (Postgraduate) (B433)
Design Management (Postgraduate) (G401)
Graphic Design (G102)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.