International Business Management Program (Postgraduate) (B411)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
International Business Management
Code:
B411
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
8 months (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,317.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,305.00 **
Centre:
Business
School:
Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Open
Opens Aug 6, 2024
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Project Management (Postgraduate) (B415)
Human Resources Management (Postgraduate) (B408)
Financial Planning (Postgraduate) (B407)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Get ready to take on the global market with the
International Business Management
graduate certificate program. Using dynamic and interactive teaching methods like case analysis and guest speakers, we break down the complex field of international business into manageable pieces and prepare you for a career in international business management. Potential job roles when you graduate include export control analysts, logistic coordinators, junior import coordinators and customs raters.
Full Description
As a student in our
International Business Management
graduate certificate program, you’ll learn about a diverse range of topics related to the global market. This includes the documents and procedures needed to move products and services through a global supply chain, as well as compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements. You’ll also learn about cultural etiquette, business protocols, ethical standards, and legal practices that are important in international business and explore international payment instruments, as well as foreign exchange strategies.
Finally, you'll learn about human resource strategies that are key to managing a successful international operation.
Here are some skills you’ll be able to show off after completion of the International Business Management postgraduate program:
Evaluating the impact of world issues on an organization's global business opportunities
Conducting market research and presenting findings to support international business decision-making
Creating an international marketing plan that supports trade initiatives
Creating and presenting an international business plan
This
Centre for Business
program is part of our
School of Management.
Watch our past recording of the online info session for the International Business Management program.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program will be equipped to enter a wide range of positions across a broad spectrum of organizations involved in international business management. Examples of careers students may pursue after graduation include:
export control analyst
junior import co-ordinator
logistics co-ordinator
logistics and customs co-ordinator
customs rater
Educational Pathways
The International Business Management graduate certificate can also prepare students to pursue three industry designations/certifications in addition to the George Brown College graduate certificate if they choose to do so. These industry designations/certifications require additional exams and/or related work experience to qualify. Please check the official websites listed below to find the detailed requirements set by the granting bodies of these designations/certifications.
The three industry designations/certifications are:
Certified International Trade Professional (CITP) designation offered by FITT (
fitt.ca
). Please view the
equivalency course chart at georgebrown.ca/FITT
.
Certified Customs Specialist (CCS) designation offered by the Canadian Society of Customs Brokers (
cscb.ca
).
Certificate in International Freight Forwarding (CIFFA), recognized and approved by the Federation of International Freight Forwarding Associations (
ciffa.com
).
Note:
The requirements for each designation/certification are set by the granting body, not George Brown College. In order to qualify for any of these designations/certifications, you need to follow the process listed on its website and meet all the requirements applicable to you.
Accredited Educational Partnership Agreement with FITT
George Brown College has partnered with FITT (Forum for International Trade Training) to offer the FITT skills program. FITT is an international trade training and professional certification body. As the only organization of its kind in the world, FITT sets the standards and designs the training programs leading to the Certified International Trade Professional (CITP) designation. FITT’s quality training programs impart knowledge and practical skills that provide a competitive advantage to trade practitioners and elevate their position in world markets.
Courses
Required Courses
In order to graduate from the
B411 program
, you need to complete
12
mandatory courses.
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
BUS 4091
Global Trade Assessment
NONE
BUS 4092
International Sales and Marketing
NONE
BUS 4093
Supply Chain Management
NONE
BUS 4094
International Market Entry Strategies
NONE
BUS 4074
Accounting and Finance
NONE
BUS 4077
Global Leadership
NONE
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
Pre-requisite
BUS 4034
International Trade Finance
BUS 4091
BUS 4037
International Trade Management
BUS 4094
BUS 4042
Freight Forwarding
BUS 4093
BUS 4076
Customs Administration
BUS 4091
BUS 4096
Capstone Project
Successful completion of Semester 1
BUS 4079
International Business Speakers Series
NONE
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Conduct an environmental scan to evaluate the impact of world issues on an organization’s international business opportunities.
Conduct, evaluate and present market research to support an organization’s international business decision‐making.
Manage the preparation of documents and the application of procedures to support the movement of products and services in the organization’s global supply chain.
Evaluate the impact of statutory and regulatory compliance on an organization’s integrative trade initiatives.
Develop and implement strategies to negotiate effectively within various cultural environments and to address the impact of cultural differences on an organization’s integrative trade initiatives.
Develop and present an international marketing plan, and evaluate sales strategies that support an organization’s integrative trade initiatives.
Identify and interpret relevant international financial documents, and evaluate financial strategies that support an organization’s integrative trade initiatives.
Analyze the impact of an organization's integrative trade initiatives on its human resources management strategies, policies and practices.
Develop and present an international business plan.
Manage the implementation and evaluation of team projects by applying project management principles.
Recommend strategies to support principles of corporate sustainability, corporate social responsibility and ethics associated with an organization’s integrative trade initiatives and evaluate their effectiveness.
Select and apply current technologies to support an organization’s integrative trade initiatives.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,317.00 *
International Tuition
$18,305.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
College advanced diploma (three-year) or bachelor's degree or demonstrated, relevant work experience (resumé and references required).
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission. In addition, applicants who are considered for admission to the program based solely on their work experience will be required to provide proof of English proficiency at the college level, and may be required to write the George Brown College English admission assessment.
Please review our
English proficiency requirements
.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
International Business Management (B411)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the program co-ordinator:
Philip Eng
, Program Co-ordinator
Email:
peng@georgebrown.ca
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Management
and classes usually take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Social Channels:
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn.
Explore related programs:
Project Management (Postgraduate) (B415)
Human Resources Management (Postgraduate) (B408)
Financial Planning (Postgraduate) (B407)
Starting in a new country is never easy; luckily for me, I landed in the right place. George Brown College feels like home with every interaction I have, no matter if I’m speaking with staff, colleagues or friends. The college gave me the opportunity to develop my professional skills by working as a Peer Coach and later on as the Marketing Coordinator for the Career Services Centre, an opportunity offered for my co-op term. I’m proud to be a George Brown International Business Management AND Strategic Relationship Marketing graduate.
Carlos Carli
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.