Interior Design Program (T178)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Interior Design
Code:
T178
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,253.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,290.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Architectural Studies
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Co-op is available in 3rd year through a divisional selection process.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Architectural Technology (T109)
Architectural Technician (T132)
Graphic Design (G102)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The three-year
Interior Design
advanced diploma program prepares you for a future in the interior design industry. This program not only helps you become a valuable member of a design team, but also gives you life skills that go well beyond the world of design.
Each semester, your main studio courses teach you how to develop conceptual designs for residential and commercial spaces, how to represent designs in 2D and 3D using a broad range of architectural drawing programs, and how to communicate design intentions using construction drawings. In your project work, you'll incorporate building code, sustainability, accessibility, lighting, textiles, furniture, colour, and ergonomics. Although selection of finishes is part of what we do, this is not a decorating program.
Full Description
At George Brown College, our focus is on people-centred design, and we believe in nurturing creativity through education. While you don't need a portfolio to join us, a strong enthusiasm and passion for design are essential. We'll handle the teaching—you bring the curiosity!
Interior design listens, empathizes, learns, creates, excites, and educates. Design is everywhere and affects everyone, and it is part of our everyday shared experiences. Interior design involves the integration of concepts and ideas, light fixtures, materials, textures, furniture, and other elements to create innovative interior spaces that are functional and meet all required codes.
In the three-year
Interior Design
advanced diploma program, you'll develop a thorough understanding of interior design theory, concept application, and technical drawing. Using a conceptual approach, you'll design for retrofits, renovations, and new construction in studios with the most up-to-date equipment and software. For these studio projects, you'll communicate the technical aspects of building interiors by developing plans, elevations, sections, renderings, and 3D models.
As a graduate, your area of specialization might include, but is not limited to:
interior design
interior design technology (2D and 3D computer drawing)
bathroom and kitchen design/build
project management
architectural software (rendering and modelling)
product manufacturer sales
specification writing
Note:
If you enrol in the program in January, you must complete semester 2 in the summer (May to August) of the same year in order to continue into semester 3 in the fall.
Computer requirements:
We are a PC-based program and currently require you to use: Adobe Suite, AutoCAD, Revit, SketchUp, Enscape, and Vray. Gaming computers are a good choice to meet the program's requirement, and we recommend a laptop for in-classroom use. For exact specifications, please speak to your first year CAD professor after starting the program.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Opportunities for Interior Design Technologists vary within the AEC industry. Career options available to graduates of this program may include, but are not limited to, the following:
junior interior designer
computer-aided technical and presentation drawings and modelling
technologist with builders, architectural and interior design firms
technical representative for building/equipment suppliers
specification Writer
project coordinator
design and colour consultant for builders and retail outlets
staging for real estate and film industry
Graduates of this program will be interior design technologists who, with experience and a government Building Code Identification Number, will be legally able to design interiors of buildings. You may work independently as a self-employed interior design technologist or interdependently as part of an interior design or multidisciplinary architectural or building development team.
With experience and ongoing professional development, graduates will be able to enhance their professional competence and expand their scope of work. There are employment opportunities in the interior design industry, government and public organizations, with careers in the design of building interiors and systems, fittings and furnishings, staging, preparation and interpretation of material specifications and drawings, sales and marketing, purchasing operations, field and customer service and management of interior design projects.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
ARCH 1005
Architectural Technology & Studio 1
ARCH 1014
Canadian Industry Practices
ARCH 1048
Structural Systems 1
ARCH 1050
Visual Communications 1
ARCH 1060
Design Fundamentals
CADE 1012
CAD Drawing 1
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
MATH 1139
Mathematics for Arch/IDT 1
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
ARCH 1006
Architectural Technology & Studio 2
ARCH 1013
Building Code and Regulations 1
ARCH 1070
Materials, Methods and Components 1
ARCH 1109
Building Systems – Mechanical and Electrical
ARCH 1164
Fundamentals of Building Science
CADE 1014
CAD Drawing 2
MATH 1149
Mathematics for Arch/IDT 2
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
ARCH 2009
Practice Management
CADE 2032
Digital Practices for Interiors 1
COMM 1113
Professional Communications for Building Technologies
DSGN 1103
History of Western Design
DSGN 2001
Interior Design Practices 1
DSGN 2006
Building Code for Interior Design
DSGN 2007
Interior Design Studio 1
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
ARCH 2033
Visual Communications 2
CADE 2042
Digital Practices for Interiors 2
DSGN 2011
Interior Design Practices 2
DSGN 2012
Lighting and Acoustics
DSGN 2015
Working Drawings & Materials 1
DSGN 2017
Interior Design Studio 2
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course name
ARCH 3012
Concentrations in Computational Design 1
CADE 3042
Digital Practices for Interiors 3
DSGN 3001
Interior Design Practices 3
DSGN 3009
New Technologies in Interior Design
DSGN 3017
Interior Design Studio 3
DSGN 3024
Marketing Skills and Techniques
DSGN 3025
Working Drawings and Materials 2
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course name
ARCH 3018
Specifications and Documentation
ARCH 3026
Sustainable Rating Systems
ARCH 3032
Concentrations in Computational Design 2
CADE 3052
Digital Practices for Interiors 4
DSGN 3027
Interior Design Studio 4
DSGN 3030
Residential Design and Budgeting
**Based on the results of your placement tests, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Articulation Agreement
We have articulation agreements with Yorkville University (Toronto) and Lawrence Technological University (Detroit.)
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Adhere to building and accessibility codes, regulations, standards and practices that protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
Produce accurate construction and detailed drawings with accompanying specifications to fully convey the design proposal.
Employ principles of sustainability in the specification of new and conventional materials, equipment and technologies to create objects, interiors and assemblies.
Develop design solutions considering the use of space, the physical environment, accessibility needs, and preferences to meet client needs.
Employ the principles and elements of design, and the relationship between form and function to create the design solution.
Communicate design ideas, concepts and trends for various projects, reflecting the use of theory and contemporary practice in the design solution.
Develop plans for design objects and space using appropriate volumetric manipulation conventions and technologies to create design solutions.
Effectively manage time, budgets and workloads to achieve the desired design solution.
Employ business ethics and professional practices in all design work for establishing and maintaining organizational and practitioner reputation.
Employ verbal, written, visual and digital communication skills to formally present well-articulated design proposals and solutions to a client, and/or other involved parties.
Employ professional communication practices in interaction, negotiation and collaboration with coworkers, consultants, contractors, clients, end-users and others.
Evaluate designs on the basis of concept, appropriateness, effectiveness, sustainability, codes and regulations, accessibility, user experience, and cost for the development of design solutions that will meet client needs.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,253.00 *
International Tuition
$18,290.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in the Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall of 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
Math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Architectural Studies
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4365
Email:
architecturalstudies@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room D303
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
.
Explore related programs:
Architectural Technology (T109)
Architectural Technician (T132)
Graphic Design (G102)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.