Jewellery Arts Program (F114)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Jewellery Arts
Code:
F114
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$6,027.00 * +
International Tuition:
$19,856.00 ** +
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Fashion & Jewellery
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Students with a minimum 2.5 GPA may apply for Field Education elective in final year.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Jewellery Methods (F110)
Jewellery Essentials (F111)
Gemmology (F105)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This fine jewellery program is unique in the Greater Toronto Area. George Brown College has the most comprehensive facilities and is one of the largest jewellery education providers in North America.
Program Overview
Immerse yourself in the world of jewellery creation and design with our three-year
Jewellery Arts
advanced diploma program. Equipping you with essential goldsmithing techniques and design skills, this program paves the way for you to become a skilled jewellery designer and goldsmith. From foundational skills like sawing, filing, soldering, casting, and forging to intricate decorative metal techniques, the curriculum covers all aspects of jewellery making. You'll also venture into advanced computer modelling and design, ensuring a comprehensive skill set that sets you up for success in this dynamic field.
Full Description
The three-year
Jewellery Arts
advanced diploma program introduces you to various design strategies as you study the many jewellery forms available to you. You'll use technology to flex your creative skills, while gaining fundamental jewellery business skills throughout the program.
Set your sights on achieving the highest standards of goldsmithing as you create jewellery with precious metals and gemstones, pushing your skills to new heights. Projects blend technical expertise with individual expression, while an annual jewellery exhibition spotlights your creations. Dive into competitions, industry events, and volunteering opportunities that amplify your experience and connection within the vibrant jewellery community.
Program Requirements
This program requires you to have access to a personal laptop or desktop computer, and reliable Internet access for synchronous classes.
You'll need to purchase a Rhino 7 software licence; more information will be provided after registration.
For information on computer requirements for running Rhino 7 software, please visit the
Rhino website
.
We'll provide you with a list of textbooks to purchase after registration.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
The jewellery industry offers a large variety of opportunities. Graduates work as bench goldsmiths or designers and many as specialists in repair, gemsetting and custom fine jewellery. Some establish businesses as studio jewellers, designing, making, and marketing jewellery to customers. Career opportunities exist in fine jewellery or fashion jewellery within retail, wholesale, or manufacturing contexts.
Educational Pathways
Opportunities to receive transfer credits toward further study to attain a degree in Jewellery and Gemmology are available.
For information about future study options, see the
Transfer Guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner 2024-2027
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
JEWL 1013
Goldsmithing 1
JEWL 1017
Metal Finishing 1
JEWL 1038
Technical Drawing
JEWL 1076
Rhino 1 for Jewellery
JEWL 1047
Jewellery as an Industry*
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
JEWL 1030
Goldsmithing 2
JEWL 1019
Metal Finishing 2
JEWL 1045
Jewellery Casting
JEWL 1073
Gemmology for Jewellers
JEWL 2076
Rhino 2 for Jewellery
JEWL 1083
History of Jewellery and Gemstones*
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
JEWL 1054
Jewellery Rendering and Illustration
JEWL 1099
Design and Colour for Jewellery
JEWL 1055
Jewellery Design 1
JEWL 1051
Jewellery Projects A
JEWL 1080
Industry Skills 1
JEWL 2006
Gemsetting 1
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
JEWL 2023
Jewellery Design 2
JEWL 2024
Jewellery Projects B
JEWL 1056
Production Techniques 1
JEWL 2021
Industry Skills 2
JEWL 2011
Gemsetting 2
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course Name
JEWL 3024
Jewellery Projects C
JEWL 2029
Production Techniques 2
JEWL 2037
Jewellery Business and Careers
JEWL
Program Electives (choose two)
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course Name
JEWL 3035
Jewellery Projects D
JEWL
Program Electives (choose two)*
GNED
General Education Elective (choose two)
*Program electives (four program electives required)
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Electives
*Program Specialization Electives:
Four (4) specialization electives required Jewellery electives vary each semester. See courses offered at time of registration.
Code
Course Name
JEWL 1059
Model Making 1
JEWL 1060
Model Making 2
JEWL 2007
Jewellery Repair 1
JEWL 2008
Jewellery Repair 2
JEWL 1004
Enamelling 1
JEWL 2027
Enamelling 2
JEWL 2032
Decorative Techniques
JEWL 1074
Field Education in the Jewellery Industry
JEWL 1091
Jewellery Master Class
JEWL 2086
Rhino 3 for Jewellery
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Create jewellery items in copper, brass, silver and gold, using adept goldsmithing skills for employment in the jewellery industry.
Apply specialized jewellery skills to industry standards to inform technique and design.
Devise jewellery design solutions to meet client needs taking both material and process requirements into consideration.
Construct finished jewellery pieces according to given designs.
Produce technical drawings and illustrations to communicate jewellery designs as required.
Select fabrication processes to optimize jewellery production.
Contextualize jewellery according to historical and stylistic qualities to assess provenance, materials and method of production.
Produce industry quality jewellery items using the lost wax casting process.
Incorporate polishing techniques to produce market-ready jewellery items.
Differentiate gemstones and their properties as required in the jewellery industry.
Follow ethical, security and business practices consistent with jewellery industry standards.
Employ jewellery tools, equipment and materials in a confident and safe manner.
Use computer software (CAD skills) to produce 2D drawings and 3D models of complex jewellery forms, and digital manufacturing technologies (CAM skills) to produce industry quality jewellery items.
Produce a professional portfolio that documents attained skills, including jewellery and jewellery designs, for employment applications and marketing opportunities.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$6,027.00 * +
International Tuition
$19,856.00 ** +
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
+ Books and additional supplies are not included in tuition fees and must be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
Basic computer literacy and skill level in Word and Excel are recommended.
IMPORTANT NOTE:
For promotion to the second year of the Jewellery Arts program (F114), students must attain a minimum grade of 70 per cent in Design and Colour (GHUM 1049) and Goldsmithing 2 (JEWL 1030) courses, and maintain a program grade point average of 2.7 by the end of their first year of study in the program. Students who do not meet this requirement will be able to transfer to the Jewellery Methods program (F110) or Jewellery Essentials program (F111).
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Good eyesight (corrected vision is accepted), a high degree of manual dexterity and fine motor control, mechanical inclination, drawing skills, patience, initiative, and artistic sense are the recommended qualities for success in this field.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Fashion and Jewellery
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4840
Email:
fashionandjewellery@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Our Jewellery Programs are part of our
School of Fashion and Jewellery
and classes take place at our
Casa Loma Campus
, located at
160 Kendal Ave.
, Toronto, ON, Canada.
On-campus information sessions
are available. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an info session
for an upcoming session.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Jewellery Methods (F110)
Jewellery Essentials (F111)
Gemmology (F105)
"As an older student, after having launched and sold a fintech start-up as well as having raised four daughters, I was looking to rekindle my lifetime passion for Jewellery, gemstones and artistic design. George Brown College and its Jewellery Arts program as well as its Gemmology program turned out to be the ideal place for the next step in my lifecycle. It gave me the necessary tools, the critical connections and the nurturing environment to create, experiment and grow. But best of all were the passionate and caring people I met over those wonderful years as a returning student."
Edna I. Milevsky
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.