Jewellery Essentials Program (F111)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Jewellery Essentials
Code:
F111
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$6,046.00* +
International Tuition:
$19,875.00** +
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Fashion & Jewellery
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Jewellery Arts (F114)
Jewellery Methods (F110)
Gemmology (F105)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Jewellery Essentials
one-year certificate program will give you the skills and techniques you need to begin a fulfilling career in the jewellery industry. Get ready to learn to saw, file, solder, grind, polish, and finish metals including copper, brass, silver, and gold. You'll also learn to create jewellery pieces through fabrication, computer modelling, and casting techniques.
Full Description
In the
Jewellery Essentials
one-year certificate program, you'll develop basic goldsmithing skills, creating simple jewellery pieces in copper, brass, silver, and gold. We'll teach you how to differentiate gemstones, apply polishing techniques, and use a variety of jewellery tools and equipment as you prioritize safety.
Here are some more skills you'll be able to show off after completing this program:
Basic knowledge of the lost wax casting process
Produce reproductions and market-ready jewellery pieces
Create 2D drawings and 3D models of basic jewellery forms
You'll also learn about jewellery history, technical drawing, gemmology, and an overview of the industry to add to your knowledge of jewellery essentials.
PLEASE NOTE:
While successful graduates who wish to continue their jewellery education may apply for advanced standing in one of our other Jewellery diploma programs, we strongly recommend you apply for the program that best fits your career goals, as space in our diploma programs is limited and may not be available.
Program Requirements
You'll need to have access to a personal laptop or desktop computer, and reliable Internet access for synchronous classes.
You'll also be required to purchase a Rhino 7 software licence; we'll give you more registration after registration.
To learn about the computer requirements for Rhino 7, please visit the
Rhino website
.
We'll give you a list of textbooks that you'll need to purchase after registration.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
This program will prepare the successful graduate for an entry-level position in the jewellery industry. The jewellery industry offers a large variety of opportunities with careers in retail, wholesale, manufacturing, precious metals, gemstones, fashion jewellery and accessories.
Educational Pathways
Successful graduates who wish to continue their jewellery education may apply for advanced standing in one of our other Jewellery diploma programs. However, the diploma programs have limited space so it is strongly recommended that you apply for the program that best fits your career goals.
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner 2024-2025
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
JEWL 1013
Goldsmithing 1
JEWL 1017
Metal Finishing 1
JEWL 1038
Technical Drawing 1
JEWL 1076
Rhino 1 for Jewellery
JEWL 1047
Jewellery as an Industry
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
JEWL 1030
Goldsmithing 2
JEWL 1019
Metal Finishing 2
JEWL 1045
Jewellery Casting
JEWL 1073
Gemmology for Jewellers
JEWL 2076
Rhino 2 for Jewellery
JEWL 1083
History of Jewellery and Gemstones
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College courses and the requirements.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Create simple jewellery items in copper, brass, silver and gold, using basic goldsmithing skills.
Produce multiple reproductions of jewellery using basic lost wax casting process.
Apply polishing techniques to produce market-ready jewellery items made from various metals, including gold and silver.
Differentiate gemstones and their properties as required in the jewellery industry.
Contextualize jewellery according to historical and stylistic qualities to assess provenance, materials and method of production.
Use technical drawing techniques to communicate jewellery designs as required.
Conduct ethical and secure business practices consistent with jewellery business standards.
Use jewellery tools, equipment and materials in a safe manner.
Use computer software (CAD) skills to produce 2D drawings and 3D models of basic jewellery forms.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$6,046.00* +
International Tuition
$19,875.00** +
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
+ Books and additional supplies are not included in tuition fees and must be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
Basic computer literacy and skill level in Word and Excel are recommended.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Good eyesight (corrected vision is accepted), patience, and initiative are recommended qualities for success in this field.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Fashion and Jewellery
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4840
Email:
fashionandjewellery@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Our Jewellery Programs are part of our
School of Fashion and Jewellery
and classes take place at our
Casa Loma Campus
, located at
160 Kendal Ave.
, Toronto, ON, Canada.
On-campus information sessions
are available. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an info session
.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Jewellery Arts (F114)
Jewellery Methods (F110)
Gemmology (F105)
"The Jewellery Essentials program at George Brown College not only allowed me to develop transferable skills, but also an attention to detail that can only be found by working in such small scale. I came into the program without any knowledge on making jewellery and after only one year I feel the ways in which I can exercise my creativity are virtually limitless. I am truly thankful to have such a skilful and caring faculty teaching me about my passion."
Olivia Woodhouse
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.