Jewellery Methods Program (F110)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Jewellery Methods
Code:
F110
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$6,027.00 * +
International Tuition:
$19,856.00 ** +
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Fashion & Jewellery
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Elective course with in-class component and placement hours.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Jewellery Arts (F114)
Jewellery Essentials (F111)
Gemmology (F105)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Immerse yourself in the world of craftsmanship with our two-year
Jewellery Methods
diploma program. Tailored for aspiring goldsmiths and bench jewellers, this program instills essential skills right from the start—ranging from measuring and sawing to soldering, finishing, and computer modelling. As you master these fundamental techniques, you'll progress to advanced goldsmithing, gemsetting, model-making, and jewellery repair. The program's scope also includes an array of elective subjects in jewellery, ensuring you have a comprehensive foundation to succeed in this exciting profession.
Full Description
In the
Jewellery Methods
two-year diploma program, you'll develop foundational goldsmithing skills, mastering techniques in copper, brass, silver, and gold. From hand-carved wax models to setting gemstones, we'll show you what you need to know to succeed in this field. The program culminates with the creation of a professional portfolio showcasing your expertise and finished jewellery pieces aligned with industry standards.
Here are some more skills you'll be able to show off after completing this program:
Repair jewellery to satisfy your customer
Produce reproductions and market-ready jewellery pieces
Create 2D drawings and 3D models of complex jewellery forms
You'll also learn about jewellery history, technical drawing, gemmology, and an overview of the industry to add to your knowledge of jewellery methods.
Program Requirements
You will need to have access to a personal laptop or desktop computer, and reliable Internet access for synchronous classes.
You will be required to purchase a Rhino 7 software licence; we'll give you more information after registration.
To learn about the computer requirements for using Rhino 7, please visit the
Rhino website
.
We'll give you a list of textbooks that you'll need to purchase after registration.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
This program will prepare you for an entry-level position as a bench jeweller or technician. The jewellery industry offers a large variety of opportunities with careers in manufacturing, repair, gemsetting, retail or wholesale, precious metals, or fashion jewellery and accessories. Some of our graduates establish their own jewellery businesses.
Educational Pathways
Opportunities to receive transfer credits toward further study to attain a degree in Jewellery and Gemmology are available.
Successful graduates may continue their studies in the gemmology certificate program (F105) at George Brown College. Graduates with both jewellery and gemmology education have a significant advantage in the workplace.
Courses
Required Courses
Printable Curriculum Planner 2024-2026
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
JEWL 1017
Metal Finishing 1
JEWL 1076
Rhino 1 for Jewellery
JEWL 1047
Jewellery as an Industry
JEWL 1013
Goldsmithing 1
JEWL 1038
Technical Drawing 1
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
JEWL 1030
Goldsmithing II
JEWL 2076
Rhino 2 for Jewellery
JEWL 1019
Metal Finishing II
JEWL 1045
Jewellery Casting
JEWL 1073
Gemmology for Jewellers
JEWL 1083
History of Jewellery and Gemstones
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
JEWL 1080
Industry Skills 1
JEWL 2006
Gemsetting 1
JEWL 1059
Model Making 1
JEWL 2007
Jewellery Repairs 1
JEWL 2037
Jewellery Business and Careers
GNED
General Education Elective (Choose one)
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
JEWL1080
Industry Skills I
JEWL 2006
Gemsetting I
JEWL 2021
Industry Skills II
JEWL 2011
Gemsetting II
JEWL 2008
Jewellery Repairs II
JEWL
Program Specialization Elective (choose one)*
GNED
General Education Elective (choose two)
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Electives
*
Program Specialization Electives
One (1) specialized elective required. A selection of Jewellery program electives will be offered each semester. See course offerings on web registration.
Code
Course Name
JEWL 1004
Enameling 1
JEWL 1054
Jewellery Rendering and Illustration
JEWL 2032
Decorative Techniques
JEWL 1074
Field Education
JEWL 1060
Model Making II
JEWL 1091
Jewellery Master Class
JEWL 2086
Rhino 3 for Jewellery
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Create jewellery items in copper, brass, silver and gold, using fundamental goldsmithing skills for entry-level employment in the jewellery industry.
Create wax models using hand-carving techniques.
Set gemstones in simple settings to industry standards.
Repair jewellery to industry standards and to meet customer satisfaction.
Produce multiple reproductions of jewellery using the lost wax casting process.
Incorporate polishing techniques to produce market-ready jewellery items.
Differentiate gemstones and their properties as required in the jewellery industry.
Contextualize jewellery according to historical and stylistic qualities to assess provenance, materials and method of production.
Use technical drawing techniques to communicate jewellery designs as required.
Follow ethical, security and business practices consistent with jewellery industry standards.
Employ jewellery tools, equipment and materials in a confident and safe manner.
Use computer software (CAD) skills to produce 2D drawings and 3D models of complex jewellery forms.
Produce a professional portfolio that documents attained skills for employment applications.
Construct finished jewellery pieces according to given designs.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$6,027.00 * +
International Tuition
$19,856.00 ** +
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in
Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
+ Books and additional supplies are not included in tuition fees and must be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
Basic computer literacy and skill level in Word and Excel are recommended.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Good eyesight (corrected vision is accepted), a high degree of manual dexterity, mechanical inclination, patience, and initiative are the recommended qualities for success in this field.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Fashion and Jewellery
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4840
Email:
fashionandjewellery@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Our
Jewellery Programs
are part of our
School of Fashion and Jewellery
and classes take place at our
Casa Loma Campus
, located at
160 Kendal Ave.
, Toronto, ON, Canada.
On-campus information sessions
are available. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an info session
.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Jewellery Arts (F114)
Jewellery Essentials (F111)
Gemmology (F105)
"George Brown is allowing me to make important connections within the community of jewellery…from stone dealers, tool and equipment shops and jewellery manufacturers."
Patrick Dacko
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.