Marketing Management – Financial Services Program (Postgraduate) (B406)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Marketing Management – Financial Services
Code:
B406
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
12 months (2 semesters in-class, 1 semester Work Experience)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,115.00* †
International Tuition:
$18,253.00** †
Centre:
Business
School:
Marketing
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Work Experience (Co-op or Internship) Required
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Strategic Relationship Marketing (Postgraduate) (B409)
Financial Planning (Postgraduate) (B407)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Marketing Management - Financial Services
graduate certificate program provides students with marketing skills employers value. You’ll learn how to successfully market to different customers and build long-term profitable relationships with them. This program prepares graduates for careers within banks, mutual fund companies, financial institutions, and financial service agencies and suppliers.
Full Description
By completing the
Marketing Management - Financial Services
graduate certificate program, you'll develop strong marketing skills and understand the needs of customers in financial services. Case studies are used to engage students in learning and develop their problem-solving, analysis, and decision-making skills.
The program combines database marketing basics with courses that prepare you to take the Canadian Securities Course exams from the Canadian Securities Institute. See
csi.ca
for details about requirements and costs.
Note: The requirements for each designation/certification are set by the granting body, not George Brown College. In order to qualify for any of these designations/certifications, you need to follow the process listed on its website and meet all the requirements applicable to you.
Here are some skills you’ll be able to show off after completion of the Marketing Management - Financial Services program:
Applying marketing principles and concepts to the financial services industry
Planning and implementing effective marketing strategies for financial products and services
Analyzing data using industry-standard software to provide marketing insights and create professional reports
Communicating marketing information persuasively and accurately through oral, written, graphic, and interactive media formats
Preparing and delivering a sales presentation or pitch that addresses the client's needs.
This
Centre for Business
program is part of our
School of Marketing
.
Watch our past recording of the online info session for the Marketing Management – Financial Services Program.
Your Field Education Options
Work Experience (co-op or internship work term)
This program requires the successful completion of a one-semester work experience to graduate. This work experience is either co-op (paid) or internship (unpaid). Either one will give you the practical experience employers value. The work experience term occurs
between
the two academic semesters.
George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students then apply for these opportunities and go through a competitive interview process. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the learning outcomes of the program. This valuable work experience can, in turn, be added to your resumé.
In addition to more formal on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide field education opportunities with real-world problems and clients. Find out more about
field education
at the Centre for Business.
MARKETING ASSOCIATIONS MEMBERSHIP
George Brown Marketing students have access to membership to two of Canada’s premier marketing associations, the CMA and IAB, included in their tuition fees:
Canadian Marketing Association (CMA)
membership includes:
Live and online events, with free or reduced member pricing
Professional development opportunities
Tools, resources, and guides for members only
Networking opportunities with thousands of marketers
Exclusive access to
CMA NXT
, a site dedicated to filling the gap between post-secondary education and professional life
Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB)
membership includes:
Student volunteer (and networking) opportunities for marquee events
Members-only webinars and podcasts
Original Canadian digital marketing research
Globally accepted digital ad standards
Globally standardized courses, certification, and custom workshops
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
You will be prepared for careers in a variety of corporations, particularly within banks, mutual fund companies and other financial institutions and within the agencies and suppliers that service the financial services industry. Graduates from the program have found employment in the following roles:
marketing specialist
credit or business analyst
financial services officer
customer service representative
personal banking representative
Industry
Toronto is the leading Canadian financial services centre. With more than 210,000 people working in the sector, it is also the second-largest North American financial hub after New York City.* The financial services industry is composed of more than just banks. It also includes trust and loan companies, insurance companies, credit unions, securities dealers, finance and leasing companies, pension fund managers, mutual fund companies, independent insurance agents and brokers and the growing fintech industry.
*
City of Toronto
Educational Pathways
Graduates of this program may wish to pursue other designations in the financial services sector.
Information on the Canadian Securities Course and licensing requirements can be found at the
Canadian Securities Institute website
.
Note:
The requirements for each designation are set by the granting body, not George Brown College. In order to qualify for any of these designations, you need to follow the process listed on its website and meet all the requirements applicable to you.
Courses
Required Courses
In order to graduate, you need to complete the following
13
mandatory courses and
1
work experience term. The work experience term can be co-op, internship, simulation, consulting, or
research projects
SEMESTER 1
CODE
COURSE NAME
PRE-REQUISITE
COMP 1192
Computer Applications for Database Marketing
NONE
FIN 4024
Canadian Investments I
NONE
MARK 1027
Marketing Management
NONE
MARK 2037
Database Marketing Strategies
NONE
MARK 4005
Applied Business Communications
NONE
MARK 4031
Marketing Management-Financial Management Seminar Series
NONE
BUS 4000
Work Experience Prep Course
NONE
SEMESTER 2
CODE
COURSE NAME
PRE-REQUISITE
FIN 4025
Canadian Investments II
NONE
MARK 1031
Principles of Marketing Financial Services
NONE
MARK 1109
Data Analytics & Data Mining
NONE
MARK 2044
Principles of Marketing Research
NONE
MARK 4012
Marketing Metrics
NONE
MARK 4013
Customer Experience Fundamentals
NONE
Work Experience Term
CODE
COURSE NAME
PRE-REQUISITE
COOP 4002 / INTN 4002 / BAWT 4002
Work Experience Term
BUS 4000
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Formulate a marketing plan that will meet the needs or goals of a business or organization.
Develop an integrated marketing communications plan for a product, concept, good and/or service based on an identified market need or target.
Formulate strategies for developing new and/or modified products, concepts, goods and services that respond to evolving market needs.
Develop strategies for the efficient and effective placement/distribution of products, concepts, goods and services that respond to evolving markets.
Evaluate the impact of using different marketing strategies for a product, concept, good and/or service, on the finances, Return on Investment (ROI) and business goals of an organization.
Evaluate the viability of a concept, product, good and/or service in a local, national or international markets.
Conduct market research to provide information needed to make marketing decisions.
Communicate marketing information persuasively and accurately in oral, written, graphic and interactive media formats.
Plan, prepare and deliver a sales presentation or pitch that addresses the needs of the client.
Develop strategies with clients, customers, consumers and others to grow and maintain relationships.
Develop learning and development strategies and plans to enhance professional growth in the field.
Apply entrepreneurial strategies to identify and respond to new career opportunities that might include contract employment, and self-employment initiatives.
Participate in and contribute to a framework of organizational policies and practices, when conducting business of the organization.
Apply the principles of business ethics and corporate social responsibility to business decisions.
Employ the management techniques of planning, organizing, directing and controlling of marketing functions and activities in response to the business needs of the organization.
Develop marketing strategies for financial products and services that respond to evolving market needs.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,115.00* †
International Tuition
$18,253.00** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include textbooks, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
† This program includes one work experience semester.
The tuition fee for this program does NOT include the cost of the work experience semester. There is an additional fee of $500 for each work experience semester.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
College advanced diploma (three-year) or bachelor's degree or demonstrated, relevant work experience (resumé and references required).
English Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission. In addition, applicants who are considered for admission to the program based solely on their work experience will be required to provide proof of English proficiency at the college level, and may be required to write the George Brown College English admission assessment
Please review our
English proficiency requirements
for more details.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
Marketing Management – Financial Services (B406)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the program co-ordinator:
Anne Iarocci
, Program Co-ordinator
Email:
anne.iarocci@georgebrown.ca
John Peco
, Chair, School of Marketing
Email
:
john.peco@georgebrown.ca
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Marketing
and classes usually take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today!
Social Channels:
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn.
Explore related programs:
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Strategic Relationship Marketing (Postgraduate) (B409)
Financial Planning (Postgraduate) (B407)
The Marketing Management - Financial Services program has given me a wholistic view of marketing, from traditional practices to digital strategies. The best part of the program was the co-op term, where I was able to gain experience which equipped me with important skills that are highly valuable in today's society. I highly recommend this program to those who want to learn not just about financial services, but about marketing as well.
Regine Marie Salvador
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.