Marketing Management – Digital Media Program (Postgraduate) (B433)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Marketing Management – Digital Media
Code:
B433
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
12 months (2 semesters in-class, 1 semester work experience)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,492.00 * †
International Tuition:
$18,428.00 ** †
Centre:
Business
School:
Marketing
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Work Experience (Co-op or Internship) Required
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Open
Opens Aug 6, 2024
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Strategic Relationship Marketing (Postgraduate) (B409)
Sport and Event Marketing (Postgraduate) (B400)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
In the
Marketing Management - Digital Media
graduate certificate program, you'll learn foundational skills employers value in digital marketing. You’ll discover how to use social, owned, and paid media to communicate with your target audience while enjoying a hybrid-learning format that combines in-class and online learning.
PLEASE NOTE: Approximately 40 per cent of the program is delivered online. This program is also offered in a fully online format (which may not be suitable for international students due to student visa requirements). Students who wish to apply for the
Marketing Management – Digital Media (Online) Postgraduate program
should apply to
B423
.
Full Description
The
Marketing Management – Digital Media
graduate certificate program covers social media marketing, mobile marketing, search marketing, content marketing, owned media marketing, paid media marketing, and marketing analytics. Students will enjoy working on a capstone project during their final semester. As a graduate of this program, you'll be ready for a career in marketing communications and planning, client services, and media planning and buying.
Here are some skills you’ll be able to show off after completion of the Marketing Management - Digital Media program:
Recommending strategies for using digital and online communication and media as part of a marketing communications plan
Conducting market research to help inform marketing decisions
Evaluating the viability of marketing products, concepts, goods, or services in local, national, and international markets
Delivering persuasive and accurate marketing messages through oral, written, graphic, and interactive media
Planning, preparing, and delivering a sales pitch or presentation that meets the client's needs
PLEASE NOTE: Students in the Marketing Management - Digital Media program will take both in-class courses and hybrid courses (which combine online and in-class instruction), and students will need access to a computer.
This program is also offered in a fully online format (which may not be suitable for international students due to student visa requirements). Students who wish to apply for the
Marketing Management – Digital Media (Online) Postgraduate program
, should apply to
B423
.
This
Centre for Business
program is part of our
School of Marketing
.
Minimum computing requirements
PC
Intel i3 processor
Microsoft Windows 7 or higher with 4GB RAM
web camera and microphone
Wi-Fi: IEEE 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac compatible
Microsoft Office – Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, OneDrive (including access to Office 365 cloud)
free for all current George Brown College students
Apple/Mac
Intel i3 processor
macOS High Sierra with 4GB RAM
Web camera and microphone
Wi-Fi: IEEE 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac compatible
Office 2016 for Mac – Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, OneDrive (including access to Office 365 cloud)
free for all current George Brown College students
Your Field Education Options
Work Experience (co-op or internship work term)
This program requires the successful completion of a one-semester work experience term to graduate. This work experience is either co-op (paid) or internship (unpaid). Either one will give you the practical experience employers value.
The work term occurs after the end of the second academic semester.
George Brown works with employers and industry partners to identify potential work experience opportunities. Students then apply for these opportunities and go through a competitive interview process. Students are also strongly encouraged to pursue self-directed industry work experience opportunities they believe will provide the learning experiences they value and meet the learning outcomes of the program. This valuable work experience can, in turn, be added to your resumé.
In addition to on-the-job work experience, George Brown College endeavours to provide field education opportunities with real-world challenges and clients. Find out more about
field education
at the
Centre for Business
.
MARKETING ASSOCIATIONS MEMBERSHIP
George Brown Marketing students have access to membership to two of Canada’s premier marketing associations, the CMA and IAB, included in their tuition fees:
Canadian Marketing Association (CMA)
membership includes:
Live and online events, with free or reduced member pricing
Professional development opportunities
Tools, resources, and guides for members only
Networking opportunities with thousands of marketers
Exclusive access to
CMA NXT
, a site dedicated to filling the gap between post-secondary education and professional life
Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB)
membership includes:
Student volunteer (and networking) opportunities for marquee events
Members-only webinars and podcasts
Original Canadian digital marketing research
Globally accepted digital ad standards
Globally standardized courses, certification, and custom workshops
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates from the
Marketing Management – Digital Media
program will be prepared to start careers in a variety of roles including marketing communication, client service, marketing communication planning or media planning and buying, across different industry sectors.
Potential job positions may include:
Digital Marketing Assistant/Manager
Social Media Co-ordinator/Manager
Digital Content Manager
Media Planner
Digital Analyst
Community Manager
SEM Specialist
SEO Analyst
Account Co-ordinator/Manager
Industry
George Brown College is aligned with what businesses are looking for! In-demand skills in digital marketing, search engine optimization (SEO), Google Analytics and Microsoft 365, as suggested by
Randstad
, are all skills students develop in our
Marketing Management – Digital Media
program.
We also help put students on the path to obtaining marketing certifications* including Hootsuite Social Marketing certification, Hootsuite Platform certification, Google Analytics certification, Google Ads certification and Facebook Blueprint certification
*Certifications are awarded by the certifying body and not George Brown College.
Educational Pathways
For information on future study options, see our
transfer guide
.
Courses
Required Courses
In order to graduate from the
B433 program
, you need a total of
13
mandatory courses and
1
work experience semester. Work Experience term can be co-op, internship, simulation, consulting, or
research projects.
SEMESTER 1
CODE
COURSE NAME
PRE-REQUISITE
MARK 1044
Search Marketing
NONE
MARK 2037
Database Marketing Strategies
NONE
MARK 4005
Applied Business Communication
NONE
MARK 4019
Fundamentals of Marketing And IMC
NONE
MARK 4022
Content Marketing
NONE
MARK 4023
Paid Media Marketing
NONE
BUS 4000
Work Experience Prep Course
NONE
SEMESTER 2
CODE
COURSE NAME
PRE-REQUISITE
MARK 1051
Social Media Marketing
MARK 4022
MARK 1054
Strategic Marketing Project
Successful completion of semester 1
MARK 4020
Owned Media Marketing
MARK 1044
MARK 4021
Analytics for Digital Marketing
MARK 4019
MARK 4024
Introduction to OMNI Channel Marketing
MARK 4019
MARK 4029
Digital Media Marketing Seminar Series
NONE
WORK EXPERIENCE TERM
CODE
COURSE NAME
PRE-REQUISITE
COOP 4005 / INTN 4005 / BAWT 4005
Work Experience
BUS 4000
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Formulate a marketing plan that will meet the needs or goals of a business or organization.
Develop an integrated marketing communications plan for a product, concept, good and/or service based on an identified market need or target.
Formulate strategies for developing new and/or modified products, concepts, goods and services that respond to evolving market needs.
Develop strategies for the efficient and effective placement/distribution of products, concepts, goods and services that respond to evolving markets.
Evaluate the impact of using different marketing strategies for a product, concept, good and/or service on the finances, Return on Investment (ROI) and business goals of an organization.
Evaluate the viability of a concept, product, good and/or service in local, national or international markets.
Conduct market research to provide information needed to make marketing decisions.
Communicate marketing information persuasively and accurately in oral, written, graphic and interactive media formats.
Plan, prepare and deliver a sales presentation or pitch that addresses the needs of the client.
Develop strategies with clients, customers, consumers and others to grow and maintain relationships.
Develop learning and development strategies and plans to enhance professional growth in the field.
Apply entrepreneurial strategies to identify and respond to new career opportunities that might include contract employment, and self-employment initiatives.
Participate in and contribute to a framework of organizational policies and practices, when conducting business of the organization.
Apply the principles of business ethics and corporate social responsibility to business decisions.
Employ the management techniques of planning, organizing, directing and controlling of marketing functions and activities in response to the business needs of the organization.
Recommend strategies for using digital and online communication and media as part of a marketing communications plan.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,492.00 * †
International Tuition
$18,428.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
†
This program includes one work experience semester.
The tuition fee for this program does NOT include the cost of the work experience semester. There is an additional fee of $500 for each work experience semester.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
College advanced diploma (three-year) or bachelor's degree or demonstrated, relevant work experience (resumé and references required).
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission. In addition, applicants who are considered for admission to the program based solely on their work experience will be required to provide proof of English proficiency at the college level, and may be required to write the George Brown College English admission assessment.
Please our
English proficiency requirements
for more details.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
Marketing Management – Digital Media (B433)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the program co-ordinator:
Blair Smith
, Program Co-ordinator
Email:
blair.smith@georgebrown.ca
John Peco
, Chair – School of Marketing
Email
:
john.peco@georgebrown.ca
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Marketing
and classes usually take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
, and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour.
Social Channels:
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn.
Explore related programs:
Strategic Relationship Marketing (Postgraduate) (B409)
Sport and Event Marketing (Postgraduate) (B400)
Digital Media Marketing is a one-of-a-kind program and it caters to students either coming from a different background or already from the digital marketing field. This program will give you an equal opportunity to learn, explore and grow in the digital world. The best part of this program is its work experience term, which gives you a platform to work with some great employers. Joining George Brown College proves to be my best decision.
Azka Ijaz
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.