Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design Program (T121)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design
Code:
T121
Credential:
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years (6 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$4,203.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,251.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Mechanical Technician – CNC and Precision Machining (T173)
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation (T171)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Join us in designing the future, today! The three-year
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design
advanced diploma program gives you a solid grounding in engineering sciences and practical hands-on experience in mechanical and computer-assisted design labs. This combination of applied and theoretical knowledge will equip you with the skill set employers are looking for in today’s integrated work environments.
Full Description
Study real-world solutions. Mechanical engineering is the cornerstone of sophisticated and technologically advanced economies. Process automation and control, precision machining, and design functions can be found in industries as diverse as automotive, aerospace, robotics, biotechnology, and energy. These mechanical functions open doors to a wide range of industrial automation and design-oriented careers.
In your third year of the
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design
advanced diploma program, you'll apply your new knowledge as you work with a team to plan, fabricate, and test your designs. Once built, projects such as medical devices, entertainment equipment, solar-powered products, and automotive accessories are often put on display and form an important part of your assessment. This experience will teach you important lessons in teamwork, while also solidifying your mechanical engineering knowledge and skills.
Note
: If you enrol in the program in January, you must complete semester 2 in the summer (May to August) of the same year.
Your Field Education Options
Field study in the form of industry-driven applied research projects are provided to students. Students work closely with their industry sponsors to design, fabricate and test a solution to a real-world problem.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
EMNG 1001
Circuit Analysis
MENG 1044
Introduction to Mechanical Engineering Design
MENG 1045
Machining Fundamentals and Metrology
MENG 1088
Occupational Health and Safety
GSSC 1027
Personal Finance
MATH 1160
Mathematics for Engineering Technology 1
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
CADE 1004
Introduction to CNC
EMNG 1003
Engineering Physics
MENG 1026
Introduction to Mechanical CAD
MENG 1090
Precision Machining
MENG 2008
Pneumatic Systems
MATH 1171
Mathematics for Engineering Technology 2
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
CADE 2003
Advanced Mechanical CAD
DRFT 1014
Jig and Fixture Design
EMNG 1013
Electronic Devices
MENG 2010
Electro-Pneumatic Controls
MENG 2039
Statics
MATH 2015
Calculus 1
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
DRFT 2024
Tool Design
MENG 1019
Fluid Mechanics
MENG 2040
Engineering Strengths of Materials
MENG 2047
Geometric Dimensioning and Tolerance
MENG 2049
Product Development Engineering
MENG 3009
Industrial Automation: PLC Systems
MATH 3006
Calculus 2
SEMESTER 5
Code
Course name
MENG 3006
Thermodynamics
MENG 3008
Capstone Project 1
MENG 3012
Finite Element Analysis
MENG 3023
Engineering Dynamics
MENG 3024
Machine Design 1
MENG 3026
Engineering Materials
MENG 3027
Building Automation
SEMESTER 6
Code
Course name
EMNG 2040
Workplace Preparedness and Technical Report Writing
EMNG 2041
Robotics
EMNG 3016
Fundamentals of HVAC/R Systems
MENG 3010
Capstone Project 2
MENG 3025
Machine Design 2
GNED
General Education Elective
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 Introduction to College Communication does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Communicate clearly and concisely in written, graphic and oral form using appropriate formal and informal vocabulary and formats.
Display appropriate responsible attitudes.
Carry out established design procedures, making use of handbooks, catalogues, specifications and codes. They should be able to recognize problems and apply established engineering practice to arrive at practical solutions.
Prepare and interpret detail drawings, assembly drawings and compile technical specifications.
Inspect, conduct tests and compare and compile data in accordance with standard formats and procedures.
Assist in the planning, operation, control and improvement of manufacturing and production processes.
Participate in the installation and maintenance of equipment and systems.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$4,203.00 *
International Tuition
$18,251.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Students are responsible for purchasing CSA standard safety shoes for their protection when working in the laboratories.
CSA safety glasses are provided, but students who wish to use prescription safety glasses will be responsible for purchasing those separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
Math
.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4365
Email:
engineeringtech@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room D305
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Mechanical Technician – CNC and Precision Machining (T173)
Electromechanical Engineering Technology – Building Automation (T171)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.