Mechanical Techniques Program (Fast-Track) (T149)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Mechanical Techniques
Code:
T149
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
14 weeks (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$3,909.00 * †
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Mechanical Technician – CNC and Precision Machining (T173)
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Click here to check availability for Spring 2024
This 14-week
Mechanical Techniques
certificate program is specifically designed to complement university engineering students' theoretical knowledge with applied practical techniques. Topics include manufacturing protocol, engineering drawing, solid modelling (Solidworks), precision machining, quality control, CNC machining with Mastercam, pneumatics/electro-pneumatic circuits, and microprocessor control systems. Coursework emphasizes practical techniques through applied learning and hands-on lab activities.
Full Description
The 14-week
Mechanical Techniques
certificate program is specifically designed to introduce currently enrolled and recently graduated university engineering students to practical engineering concepts that include:
industrial safety
dimensional inspection
machining practices
metal forming
quality control
pneumatics/electro-pneumatic circuits
embedded electronics
Computer-Aided Design (CAD), Computer-Aided Manufacturing (CAM), and Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machining techniques
Coursework will cover both theoretical and practical concepts with a focus on the lab-based application of course content.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Upon completion of the program, you will have a strong hands-on foundation in understanding the capabilities, limitations, applications, and safe operation of machining tools and equipment.
The skills you gain through this fast-track certificate program relate directly to employer requirements for university engineering program theory, complemented by hands-on skills.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1: First 7 weeks (24 hours)
Code
Course Title
MENG 1048
Machining Fundamentals
MENG 1049
Mechanical CAD with SolidWorks
MENG 1058
Computer Numeric Control & 2D Computer-Aided Manufacturing
SEMESTER 2: Second 7 weeks (24 hours)
Code
Course Title
MENG 1058
Computer Numeric Control & 2D Computer-Aided Manufacturing
MENG 1059
Intermediate Machining
MENG 1060
Electronic and Pneumatic Systems
MENG 2052
Quality Assurance
The fast-track program is specifically designed to introduce university engineering students to practical engineering concepts. Students will already be enrolled in, or graduated from, an undergraduate degree university program and have completed University Calculus 1 and Engineering Strategies and Practices courses or their equivalent.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Complete all work in compliance with current legislation, standards, regulations and guidelines.
Contribute to the application of quality control and quality assurance procedures to meet organizational standards and requirements.
Comply with current health and safety legislation, as well as organizational practices and procedures.
Support sustainability best practices in workplaces.
Use current and emerging technologies to support the implementation of mechanical and manufacturing projects.
Troubleshoot and solve standard mechanical problems by applying mathematics and fundamentals of mechanics.
Contribute to the interpretation and preparation of mechanical drawings and other related technical documents.
Perform routine technical measurements accurately using appropriate instruments and equipment.
Assist in manufacturing, assembling, maintaining and repairing mechanical components according to required specifications.
Select, use and maintain machinery, tools and equipment for the installation, manufacturing and repair of basic mechanical components.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,909.00 * †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
two
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
† Note that this is a fast-track program where a full two semesters of work is completed in the May to August period.
Students are responsible for purchasing CSA standard safety shoes for their protection when working in the laboratories.
CSA safety glasses are provided, but students who wish to use prescription safety glasses will be responsible for purchasing those separately.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Currently attending (or out of school for one semester) a university in Canada in a Mechanical and/or Industrial Engineering undergraduate program
Must have completed university Calculus I and Engineering Strategies and Practices (or Praxis) courses or their equivalent.
Applicants who are 18 years and younger will need to submit proof of an Ontario Secondary School Diploma in addition to post-secondary transcripts.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
School of Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4365
Email:
engineeringtech@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room D305
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Mechanical Technician – CNC and Precision Machining (T173)
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.