Mechanical Technician – CNC and Precision Machining Program (T173)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Mechanical Technician – CNC and Precision Machining
Code:
T173
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters and 1 co-op term)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$5,921.00 * †
International Tuition:
$26,927.00 ** †
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
15-week mandatory co-op in Year 2
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Mechanical Techniques (Fast-Track) (T149)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
This 2-year program is eligible for
a $40,000 scholarship.
*
In the
Mechanical Technician – CNC and Precision Machining
two-year diploma program, you'll dive into the world of precision machining and cutting-edge computer-controlled machine (CNC) technology. Our state-of-the-art labs, including Precision Machining, CAD/CAM, CNC, Research, and Robotics, will set you up with hands-on training and real-world skills. You'll design and manufacture tools, jigs, fixtures, precision fabrication, assemblies, and prototypes using computer-aided design and manufacturing software, precision machining equipment, and sophisticated CNC machine tool technology. In your final year, you'll enhance your learning through a 15-week co-op placement with industry partners.
*Domestic students only — see page for details.
Full Description
In the
Mechanical Technician – CNC and Precision Machining
two-year diploma program, you'll benefit from a combination of advanced machine-tool technology principles (CAD/CAM/CNC) with extensive hands-on manufacturing practices. This unique mix of skills will set you up to meet the technical challenges you may face in the workplace. You'll also get a boost to your technical training with courses in mathematics, communications, and general education.
In your final year of this program, you'll design and fabricate prototypes using digital manufacturing technology (laser cutters, 3D printers, and multi-axis CNC machine tools).
Your Field Education Options
Students will complete a mandatory 15-week co-op term in Year 2 following the final semester of classroom studies.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
As a graduate, you may find employment in areas such as:
aerospace
nuclear
transit and OEM automotive parts companies
health care
construction and building industries
electrical and electronics industries
mould-making
tool and die making
general machining
CNC precision machining and tool-making industries
research, prototyping, and development of new and existing products
Industry
The tooling industry will continue to be the backbone for production, manufacturing, and prototyping in industrial sectors such as:
aerospace/aeronautics
medical
military
pharmaceutical
transportation/automotive
agricultural, mining, nuclear as well as emerging energy industries (solar, wind)
tool and die making
mould making
general machining
Precision Machining, CAD/CAM, Digital Manufacturing, and CNC technology covers the spectrum from traditional manufacturing to sophisticated high-speed, high-precision manufacturing that is required in the design and production of highly specialized equipment and machinery. In addition, these technologies play a vital role in research and development of new and existing products.
The future of the tooling industry will depend on highly educated and highly skilled technicians, and our program provides graduates with a solid foundation and a competitive advantage in this rapidly evolving industry.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
EMNG 1001
Circuit Analysis
MENG 1044
Introduction to Mechanical Engineering Design
MENG 1045
Machining Fundamentals and Metrology
MENG 1088
Occupational Health and Safety
GSSC 1027
Personal Finance
MATH 1160
Mathematics for Engineering Technology 1
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
CADE 1004
Introduction to CNC
CADE 2029
Computer Aided Manufacturing
MENG 1026
Introduction to Mechanical CAD
MENG 1090
Precision Machining
MENG 2052
Quality Assurance
MATH 1171
Mathematics for Engineering Technology 2
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
CADE 2013
Advanced Computer Aided Manufacturing
CADE 2034
Advanced CNC Machining
DRFT 2024
Tool Design
EMNG 2040
Workplace Preparedness & Technical Report Writing
MENG 2053
Precision Tool Manufacturing
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
CADE  2035
Multi-Axis CNC Programming
MENG 2054
Multi-Axis CNC Machining
MENG 2055
Prototyping
MENG 2058
Co-op Preparation
GNED
General Education Elective
CO-OP SEMESTER
Code
Course Name
TCOP 1005
Work Term
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit
Assessment Centre
for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Complete all work in compliance with current legislation, standards, regulations and guidelines.
Apply quality control and quality assurance procedures to meet organizational standards and requirements.
Comply with current health and safety legislation, as well as organizational practices and procedures.
Apply sustainability best practices in workplaces.
Use current and emerging technologies to support the implementation of mechanical and manufacturing projects.
Analyze and solve mechanical problems by applying mathematics and fundamentals of mechanics.
Interpret, prepare and modify mechanical drawings and other related technical documents.
Perform technical measurements accurately using appropriate instruments and equipment.
Manufacture, assemble, maintain and repair mechanical components according to required specifications.
Contribute to the planning, implementation and evaluation of projects.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,921.00 * †
International Tuition
$26,927.00 ** †
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Students are responsible for purchasing CSA standard safety shoes for their personal protection when working in the laboratories.
CSA safety glasses are provided, but students who wish to use prescription safety glasses will be responsible for purchasing those separately.
† Fees for this program do not include the cost of the work term.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
Math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4365
Email:
engineeringtech@georgebrown.ca
Our office hours are 8 a.m. – 4 p.m., room D305
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Mechanical Engineering Technology – Design (T121)
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Mechanical Techniques (Fast-Track) (T149)
After graduating from the Mechanical Technician program in 2000, Andrew Lindsay went on to become the inventor of a patented engine controller for Blutip Power that helps mining companies conserve fuel and improve the environment. With customers on four continents at six of the world's largest mining companies, the controller works on massive diesel-powered engines to save fuel burn rates by about five percent, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve operations through digital data collected by the device. For many years, Lindsay and his brother produced Lindsay Lights, a computerized, music-synchronized holiday light show that raised over $70,000 for local charities, won international awards and was featured on the TV show
Ellen
.
Andrew Lindsay
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.