Mobile Application Development and Strategy Program (Postgraduate) (T440)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Mobile Application Development and Strategy
Code:
T440
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$6,137.00 * ‡
International Tuition:
$18,603.00 ** ‡
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Computer Technology
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Mandatory Co-op or Work Integrated Project
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Computer Programming and Analysis (T177)
Information Systems Business Analysis (with experiential learning capstone) (Postgraduate) (T405)
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Mobile Application Development and Strategy
one-year graduate certificate program will equip you with a wide variety of skills related to developing, testing, and deploying apps for iOS and Android devices.
Full Description
The field of mobile application development is rapidly expanding within the IT industry. In our three-semester
Mobile Application Development and Strategy
graduate certificate program, you'll gain a diverse skill set as you learn to design, test, and launch apps for tablets and phones.
We'll highlight the top two mobile platforms––iOS and Android––and teach you Kotlin and Swift programming languages, which will set you up to develop mobile apps. We'll cover client-side development tools like HTML 5, CSS3, and JavaScript, plus aspects of server-side programming to increase your knowledge as an app developer. You'll also take part in either a co-op work term or an applied project, giving you the competitive edge you need to work in the industry.
In this program, you'll learn how to develop mobile apps from a business perspective, like performing competitive research and exploring revenue-generating ideas. You'll also learn how to submit apps to the App Store and Android Market.
Technology Requirements
You'll need to have access to a personal computer with the following specifications:
16 GB RAM minimum
256 GB SSD Hard Drive (500+ GB is optimal)
Quad-core i7 2.4GHz or better
Video card (2GB RAM minimum/4GB RAM recommended)
Webcam
Mac is recommended
Your Field Education Options
In semester 3, students complete a Work Integrated Project, or qualified students are eligible for co-op. Learn more about how to qualify, apply, and important dates for co-op on the
Centre for Arts, Design & Information Technology Experiential Learning
page.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
As a graduate of this program, you'll be ready to take on roles such as:
mobile developer
iOS developer
Android developer
mobile engineer
Courses
Required Courses
PRINTABLE CURRICULUM PLANNER 2024-2025
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
MADS 4001
Introduction to Android Development
MADS 4006
Advanced Android Development
MADS 4007
Web Development Fundamentals
MADS 4012
Full Stack Development
MADS 4013
Introduction to Kotlin
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
MADS 4002
Swift Fundamentals
MADS 4003
Introduction to IOS Development
MADS 4005
Advanced IOS Development
MADS 4009
Mobile Application Strategy
MADS 4014
Cross Platform Mobile Development
COMP 4064
Career Planning and Portfolio Development
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
TCOP 4010
Co-op
OR
MADS 4010
Work-Integrated Project
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
Create meaningful design artifacts using modern software engineering methodologies and project management principles.
Implement native mobile applications for different mobile platforms.
Develop solution architectures to support mobile applications by applying enterprise architecture principles and best practices.
Develop creative concepts for mobile applications that meet innovation, entrepreneurship and social enterprise objectives.
Develop secure mobile applications by implementing the security principles, standards and best practices of mobile application development.
Develop usable, friendly, fast and reliable mobile applications by applying the principles and best practices of User Interface design and experience (UI/UX).
Work independently and as a team member to develop mobile application solutions for a business.
Use industry-standard testing methodologies to ensure software quality and improve software performance.
Apply various strategies for developing competitive mobile applications.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$6,137.00 * ‡
International Tuition
$18,603.00 ** ‡
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the
first
two semesters of the program starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
‡ Semester 3 fees will consist of a flat fee of $500 for co-op placement or for the work-integrated project, fees are to be paid separately, both of which is not included in the total above.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Two- or three-year college diploma or bachelor's degree in Information Technology, Computer Science, or a related field.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY
English language proficiency is essential. Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
COURSE EXEMPTIONS
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
Apply to
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Computer Technology
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 4287
Email:
computertechnology@georgebrown.ca
The office hours are: Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Program Co-ordinator: Maziar Masoudi
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 3345
Email:
mmasoudi@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Visit Our Campus
The Mobile Application Development and Strategy is offered through our
School of Computer Technology
from our
Casa Loma Campus
at
146 Kendal Avenue
. Sign up for an
information session
or
campus tour
to learn more about George Brown College and the program. You can also explore our
virtual tour.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Computer Programming and Analysis (T177)
Information Systems Business Analysis (with experiential learning capstone) (Postgraduate) (T405)
Computer Systems Technology (T147)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.