Office Administration – Health Services Program (S135)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Office Administration – Health Services
Code:
S135
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,978.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,111.00 **
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Health Services Management
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Placement in semester 4.
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Health Information Management (C139)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Dental Office Administration (S115)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Office Administration – Health Services
program will help you develop the specialized skills needed to work in a variety of health-care settings. You'll learn relevant technological skills like computer applications and specialized software, medical terminology, clinical and office procedures, effective oral and written communication skills and soft skills such as interpersonal skills, teamwork and customer service.
Full Description
The
Office Administration – Health Services (S135)
two-year diploma program will prepare you to work effectively and efficiently in a health-care office environment. These often dynamic settings can require a broad range of skills, including both technical and soft or "people" skills.
Some of the practical and technical skills you'll learn in the Office Administration - Health Services program include:
computer applications and software
medical terminology and anatomy
transcription
administrative and clinical office procedures
billing for medical office settings
health-care law
We'll also prepare you to communicate effectively in a medical office environment by teaching you best practices with respect to:
active listening
effective writing for business communication
oral communication skills
Your Field Education Options
Field experience in the Office Administration – Health Services program plays an important role in preparing you for the real work ahead.
In semester 4, you will be on placement one day per week until the final two weeks of the program, during which time you will have an intensive two-week placement period (five days per week).
While off-site, you will observe, shadow and practise the various technical and time-management skills required to successfully manage the day-to-day tasks that are applicable to the environment you are in. These tasks may include:
patient registration
appointment scheduling
reception duties
mail, forms and records management
working with applicable software and hardware
You may also be involved in projects that require adherence to confidentiality and privacy laws. Projects like these typically draw upon soft skills like critical thinking and problem-solving.
To successfully complete the field placement component of the Office Administration – Health Services program, you will be required to demonstrate work-readiness behaviour through exemplary attendance and punctuality, as well as professional conduct and attire.
Office Administration – Health Services placement sites vary broadly and can include:
community and teaching hospitals
urgent care, long-term care facilities
clinics and diagnostic facilities
family practice, medical and surgical specialties
physiotherapy sports medicine specialists
chiropractors
midwifery
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
As an Office Administration - Health Services graduate, you can become a vital member of a health care team in a variety of positions including, but not limited to:
receptionist
clerical assistant
office administrator
hospital unit clerk
There is a
wide range of employment opportunities
open to you in the health services field.
Office Administration - Health Services graduates have found employment in:
doctors' offices
clinics
hospitals
pharmaceutical companies
government agencies
medical organizations
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
COMP 1206
Technology and Information I
KB 1002
Keyboarding I
SCI 1015
Anatomy and Terminology I
STS 1034
Strategies for Student Success
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
COMP 1212
Technology and Information II
KB 1003
Keyboarding II
MATH 1030
Foundation Mathematics for Health Services
OP 1013
Office Procedures
SCI 1022
Anatomy and Terminology II
HLTH 1024
Introduction to Health Care Law
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course name
BUS 2016
Bookkeeping for the Medical Office Environment
CLIN 1003
The Clinical Environment
COMP 1045
Healthcare Documentation I
COMP 2142
Technology and Information III – Excel
KB 2005
Keyboarding III
OP 1009
Health Insurance Billing I
SCI 2012
Anatomy and Terminology III
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course name
COMP 2036
Healthcare Documentation II
COMP 2143
Technology and Information IV – Access
JOBS 1000
Placement
JOBS 1001
Career Launch
KB 2006
Keyboarding Applications
OP 2013
Health Insurance Billing II
GNED
General Education Elective
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
web page for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Conduct oneself professionally and adhere to relevant legislation, standards and codes of ethics.
Manage the scheduling, coordination and organization of administrative tasks and workflow within specific deadlines and according to set priorities.
Coordinate the collection, analysis, distribution and response to communications in the workplace to facilitate the flow of information.
Operate and provide support to others related to the use of office equipment and technologies.
Evaluate, establish and administer health records management systems to ensure confidential, secure, accessible and organized electronic and paper records.
Produce financial and client billing records for health services by compiling relevant information and using accounting software.
Produce health documents and reports using available technologies and applying industry standards.
Use interpersonal and client service skills to respond to the diverse needs of clients, their family members and the health care team.
Identify and use non-invasive clinical tasks to support effective and efficient health service operations.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,978.00 *
International Tuition
$18,111.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and the selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
an information session is strongly recommended
basic knowledge of keyboarding skills is recommended
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form requirements and program policy (for 2
nd
year students only)
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 10 to 12 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical recordss
(TDAP shot, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres and Two-Step TB Skin Test) and proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year. These requirements must be submitted by the program specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination:
Public Health recommends that people working with young children and other vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student. To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a Vulnerable Sector Check completed, and this check must be renewed every year before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered "vulnerable persons" under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for "individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s)”.
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a "clear" vulnerable sector check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program
Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a "not clear" status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit
Clinical Pre-placement website.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
For more information, contact the
School of Health Services Management
at 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 or E-mail
hsmprograms@georgebrown.ca
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Health Information Management (C139)
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Dental Office Administration (S115)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.