Personal Support Worker Program (PSW) (C112)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Personal Support Worker
Code:
C112
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 semesters
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,912.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Clinical Placement
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Not Available
Winter
2025
Open
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
George Brown has been training Personal Support Workers for over 20 years.
Program Overview
The
Personal Support Worker (PSW)
program teaches students the skills required to provide or assist with personal care for the elderly, the chronically ill, and persons with accessibility challenges. These patients may live in the community, in long-term care facilities, or in select ambulatory care settings.
Classes for this two-semester program are held at our state-of-the-art Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences at Waterfront Campus and are scheduled between 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. from Monday to Friday. Students can expect to participate in faculty-supervised clinical practicums that take place in various settings across the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). Shift hours may vary between day and/or evenings depending upon the practice setting.
Full Description
The two-semester
Personal Support Worker (PSW)
(C112)
certificate program teaches students the full range of skills required to assist clients with their personal and household needs in order to ensure their comfort and safety.
PSWs provide or assist with personal care for:
the frail elderly
the chronically ill
people with physical disabilities living in the community
people in long-term care facilities
people in select ambulatory care settings
people in acute medical and surgical settings
people receiving palliative care
PLEASE NOTE:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
Courses focus on the skills and abilities needed to create a climate that promotes the optimal physical, social and emotional well-being of each client.
Your Field Education Options
As a student in the Personal Support Worker program, you will learn how to practise as a member of an interprofessional health-care team through a variety of clinical placement experiences. These experiences will include supervised placements in institutional and community settings, and an interprofessional
Simulation Centre
experience.
Please note:
Faculty-supervised clinical practicums take place in various settings across the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). The clinical practicum experience may vary between day and/or evening shifts, depending upon the practice setting.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
George Brown College PSW graduates can find employment in a variety of settings such as:
ambulatory care settings
long-term care facilities
residential and supportive housing
community support agencies
acute medical settings
palliative care settings
Educational Pathways
Our Personal Support Worker (C112) graduates who wish to continue their education and who meet all admission requirements can apply to the following George Brown College programs:
PSW Pathway to Practical Nursing program (S119)
Practical Nursing program (S121)
Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care postgraduate certificate (S417)
- This fully online, two-semester program teaches students to lead a team of interprofessional care professionals in complex and long-term care settings.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
PSW 1001
Role of the PSW in Client Care
PSW 1017
Providing Optimal Client and Personal Care (Lecture)
PSW 1019
Providing Optimal Client and Personal Care (Lab)
PSW 1022
Fundamentals of the Human Body
PSW 1023
Essentials PSW Communication Skills
PSW 1024
Foundations of Supportive Care
PSW 1025
Role of PSW in Medication Management
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
CARE 1101
Providing Support in a Facility Setting
CARE 1103
Providing Support in a Community Setting
CARE 1112
Health Conditions and the Role of the PSW
CARE 1113
Mental Health & Palliative Care
CARE 1114
Nutritional Care
CARE 1115
Foundations of Supportive Care II
Note: Curriculum review in progress. Course titles may change without notice. Such changes will appear here.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Work within the personal support worker role in various care settings in accordance with all applicable legislation, standards, employer job descriptions, policies, procedures and guidelines.
Practise professionally, and be accountable for one's own actions by applying problem-solving, self-awareness, time management and critical thinking to the provision of care as a personal support worker, whether working independently or as a member of a team.
Practise as an engaged member of the interprofessional team to maintain collaborative working relationships for the provision of supportive, safe, responsive and competent client-centred care within care settings.
Provide person-centred care, based on ethical principles, sensitive to diverse personal and family values, beliefs, cultural practices and other needs, which follows the plan of care.
Establish and maintain therapeutic relationships with clients and their families using effective communication skills to build a genuine, trusting, and respectful partnership, in accordance with professional boundaries, employer policies, confidentiality, and privacy legislation.
Identify relevant client information within the roles and responsibilities of the personal support worker using observation, critical thinking, and effective communication skills to report and document findings.
Create, promote and maintain a safe and comfortable environment for clients, their families, self and others by implementing current infection prevention and control measures, emergency and first aid procedures, and best practices in pandemic planning that are in keeping with the plan of care, all applicable legislation, and employer policies and procedures.
Assist clients across the lifespan with activities of daily living by applying fundamental knowledge of growth and development, psychological concepts, common alterations in functioning, health promotion, disease prevention, rehabilitation and restorative care, and holistic health care.
Assist the client with medication following the client's plan of care, and if a delegated act, under the supervision of a regulated health professional or done by exception under the most accountable person and in accordance with all applicable legislation and employer policies.
Assist with household management services and instrumental activities of daily living in accordance with the plan of care and considering the preferences, comfort, safety and autonomy of clients, families and significant others.
Assist and support clients who are caregivers, considering individual and family choices, professional boundaries and the direction of the plan of care.
Identify, respond to and report potential, alleged, suspected or witnessed situations of abuse, and/or neglect, as required by all applicable legislation, including the Retirement Homes Act, 2010 and the Long-Term Care Homes Act, 2007, and as required within the employers' job description for the personal support workers.
Assist with the provision of holistic health care and advocacy for culturally safe and spiritually sensitive palliative and end-of-life care to clients and to their families and significant others from diagnosis through to death and bereavement and in accordance with clients’ choices and the plan of care.
Provide client-centered and client-directed care to individuals experiencing various mental health illness and challenges, cognitive and intellectual impairments, and/or responsive behaviours by using supportive approaches and evidence-based practices to promote positive and safe behaviours in clients*.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,912.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
Note:
This program is open to domestic applicants only.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form requirements and program policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 8 to 10 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as TDAP shot, COVID-19, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres and Two-Step TB Skin Test), proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year,
Standard First Aid Certificate
renewed every three years,
Basic Life Support certificate
renewed every year, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the program specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a
Vulnerable Sector Check
completed, and this check must be renewed every year before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Vulnerable Sector Check will not be able to start their field or clinical placement and will therefore be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program. Our agency partners have the final decision for students being allowed to practice in their agency.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 Email:
nursing@georgebrown.ca
Office Hours: Monday to Thursday, 8 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. & Friday 8 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
"Upon graduating from the Personal Support Worker program at George Brown College, I can honestly say that my life is changed for the better. The course work was gruelling and the practical exhausting but I have never had such a great experience with a school. To your professors you are not just a student number, you are someone who could one day be taking care of family members and loved ones. The amount of time and effort my clinical instructor put into my education was unforgettable. Her care over my academic and emotional well-being will stick with me forever. George Brown College truly prepared me for a exciting future full of meaning."
Mira Glogauer
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.