Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing Program (S119)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing
Code:
S119
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
14 weeks (1 semester)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$2,104.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Not Available
Winter
2025
Open
Not Available
Spring
2025
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Personal Support Worker (PSW) (C112)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The one-semester
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing
program prepares Personal Support Worker (PSW) graduates for entry into the Practical Nursing (PN) program. This full-time program focuses on strengthening the academic skills required by the PN program.
Full Description
The 14-week
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119)
program prepares PSW graduates to enter the Practical Nursing (PN) program.
This program is designed to strengthen the core academic skills required of a practical nurse and focuses on:
biology
chemistry
mathematics
health and wellness
English language skills
interprofessional relationships
This 252-hour program was created and designed by the Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing faculty. Students can expect approximately 18 hours per week of class scheduled between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m., Monday to Friday.
This is a hybrid program with in-person classes delivered on-site at our state-of-the-art Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences at Waterfront Campus located in downtown Toronto.
Your Field Education Options
PLEASE NOTE: As this is a bridging program designed to strengthen academic skills in preparation for the Practical Nursing program, there is no clinical placement component.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
George Brown College's Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing program prepares PSW students for further study in the Practical Nursing program by enhancing core knowledge in sciences, math, humanities, communications and English.
Educational Pathways
Graduates of this Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119) program who fulfill all course requirements and achieve a program grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher on the first attempt may be eligible for the
Practical Nursing (S121)
full-time program at George Brown College.
Eligible students completing the Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119) program will be required to start the Practical Nursing (S121) program in the semester beginning immediately following the completion of S119 (i.e. students completing S119 in the fall term would enter S121 in the winter term).
It is the responsibility of students transferring into George Brown's Practical Nursing (S121) program to ensure they meet all special requirements for (S121) by the deadlines provided, including police vulnerable sector checks and submission of health records. More information can be found on the
Practical Nursing (S121) program page
.
Courses
Required Courses
Semester 1
Code
Course Name
BIOL 1046
Foundations in Human Biology
COMM 1160
Critical Thinking in Practice
NURS 1119
Health and Wellness
MATH 1004
Mathematics
CHEM 1046
Foundations in Chemistry for Health Sciences
NURS 1098
The PN Role and Interprofessional Relationships
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Perform at a level that will satisfy the entrance requirements of a post-secondary health sciences program whose direct entrants must have a minimum qualification of OSSD, including biology and other science credits as required.
Relate to persons in an educational institution and a health-care agency through an understanding of basic social sciences and human relations.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$2,104.00 *
Additional Costs
*Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for
one semester
of the program starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first  semester of program starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
APPLICANTS TO THIS PROGRAM MUST HAVE COMPLETED AN ONTARIO PERSONAL SUPPORT WORKER CERTIFICATE
Specific requirements are as follows:
Ontario Personal Support Worker (PSW) graduate (Ontario college certificate from a college of applied art and technology [CAAT] college),
OR
from an accredited private career college or Institution from 2014 onward
minimum program grade point average of 3.0 (in PSW)
grade 12 English C or U with a minimum grade of 65 per cent
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 Math (C or U) with a minimum grade of 65 per cent
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
Please note:
Successful candidates will be required to start the S121 program in the semester immediately following completion of S119. It is the responsibility of students transferring into S121 to ensure they meet all special requirements for S121 by the deadlines provided, including police vulnerable sector check and submission of health records. More information can be found on the S121 program page.
This program is open to domestic applicants only.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2367
Email:
nursing@georgebrown.ca
Office Hours: Monday to Thursday, 8 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. & Friday 8 a.m. – 4 p.m.
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Personal Support Worker (PSW) (C112)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.