Plumbing Techniques Program (T165)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Plumbing Techniques
Code:
T165
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
May
Domestic Tuition:
$5,241.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,070.00 **
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Apprenticeship & Skilled Trades
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Open
Opens Aug 6, 2024
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Technician (T160)
Construction Techniques (T176)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Click here to check availability for Spring 2024
The
Plumbing Techniques
one-year certificate program covers residential, commercial, and industrial applications in the plumbing industry, with a focus on residential plumbing. This hands-on program will benefit anyone seeking to enter an apprenticeship or any construction-related career path.
Full Description
The
Plumbing Techniques
one-year certificate program uses hands-on projects to teach you about:
tools, materials, equipment, and methods used in the plumbing industry
estimating materials and labour costs
proper use of hand tools and power tools
safety practices and procedures associated with these tools
You'll study industry standards and building codes, while considering health and safety issues and energy conservation.
Projects include:
Constructing and testing both drain and water systems.
Learning how to install hot water heaters and a variety of residential plumbing fixtures.
Research on the science of sanitation, water, and the forces acting on a sealed piping system with and without atmospheric pressure applied to it.
Studying blueprints and learning basic drafting techniques so you can design, understand, and build plumbing systems.
Your final project will focus on how to maintain the plumbing system you install and those that you may encounter in the future.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
As a graduate of this program, you can bring entry-level plumbing skills to future employers. You'll be ready to work in roles such as:
plumber
steamfitter
sprinkler systems installer
gas fitter
sales and distribution
Industry
The construction industry is one of the country’s largest employers, and skilled trades workers are among the highest paid and most in demand in Canada.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
BLDG 1110
Welding Trade Theory
BLDG 1111
Welding Trade Shop
BLDG 1112
Plumbing Trade Theory
BLDG 1113
Plumbing Trade Shop
BLDG 1114
Trade Documentation
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
BLDG 1115
Safety, Hoisting and Rigging
BLDG 1116
Plumbing Theory
BLDG 1117
Plumbing Practical Techniques
BLDG 1118
Plumbing Math
BLDG 1119
Blueprints and Graphic Communication
PORT 1001
Portfolio
GNED
General Education Elective
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Work according to contractual obligations; the project manual; and applicable laws, standards, bylaws and codes.
Perform residential plumbing projects effectively and accurately by interpreting and producing basic data in graphic, oral and written formats.
Work responsibly and effectively with others and in accordance with appropriate practices, procedures and compliance with health and safety legislation.
Use tools and equipment for basic installation manufacture, and repair of components to required specifications.
Contribute to the organizing and planning of residential plumbing installation projects.
Solve routine problems related to work environments using a variety of systemic approaches.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$5,241.00 *
International Tuition
$18,070.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
grade 11 Math (M or U) or grade 12 (C or U)
** Mature student status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
Math
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Apprenticeship and Skilled Trades
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 6711
Email:
skilledtrades@georgebrown.ca
Office: Casa Loma Campus, Room E308
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
Explore related programs:
Electrical Techniques (T167)
Heating, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning Technician (T160)
Construction Techniques (T176)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.