Pre-Business Program (A146)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Pre-Business
Code:
A146
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,823.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,949.00 **
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Work & College Preparation
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Human Resources Management (Postgraduate) (B408)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Pre-Business (A146)
one-year certificate program will give you the skills you need to succeed in diploma programs and/or prepare you for entry-level jobs in the business world. You'll learn about the fundamentals in business, marketing, accounting, math, and communication, while earning credits toward diploma-level programs. After completing this program, you'll be able to apply for admission into the second semester of some of our Business Diploma programs.
Full Description
The
Pre-Business (A146)
one-year certificate program will help you develop the skills you need to enter a variety of business diploma programs both within
George Brown’s Centre for Business
and at other post-secondary institutions. In our supportive learning environment, you’ll get the chance to explore career options while you also earn credits toward a variety of business diploma and advanced diploma programs.
About the Pre-Business (A146) Program:
one-year program
starts in September and January
provides a solid foundation in core business subjects, including marketing, math, accounting, English, and more
upon graduation, you'll be eligible for advanced standing to several George Brown Centre for Business Diploma and Advanced Diploma programs
course credits are transferable to diploma programs at other post-secondary institutions
offers dedicated teachers and several student supports, including career and academic advising
Note:
Successful completion of this program does not guarantee entry to any other George Brown Centre for Business program.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
In just two semesters, this Pre-Business program can prepare you academically for entry into a number of two-year Business Diploma programs and three-year Business Advanced dDploma programs. Successful completion of this Pre-Business Certificate program may give you exemptions in certain Business courses, depending upon the grade level achieved.
Note:
Graduates can apply for admission into Semester 2 of select George Brown College Centre for Business Diploma programs. Successful completion of this program does not guarantee admission to any other program.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
COMP 1010
Business Computer Applications I
BUS 1047
Business Essentials I
MARK 1035
Marketing Essentials I
MATH 1027
Business Math with Remediation
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
PREP 1012
Personal and Professional Development
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
BUS 1049
Business Essentials II
MARK 1036
Marketing Essentials II
ACCT 1036
Principles of Accounting
PREP 1025
Speaking with Confidence
MATH 1008
Mathematics for Business and Management I
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
GNED
General Education Elective
The School of Work and College Preparation provides applicants and students with access to a Pathway Advisor, who provides information about upgrading options, pre-programs, and articulation agreements, and helps facilitate the transition into further post-secondary programs.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Examine the impact of economic variables, legislation, ethics, technology and the environment on an organization's operations.
Examine fundamental accounting and financial concepts, including recording transactions, creation of financial statements and closing of books to support the operation of an organization.
Solve basic numeric problems and interpret data related to business and business-related fields using mathematical concepts, including components of algebra, linear equations, break-even analysis and interest applications.
Examine fundamental marketing concepts, processes and systems including branding, product price, place and promotion to achieve business objectives.
Apply computer skills and knowledge of information technology to support the management of an organization.
Develop self-knowledge and reflective practice to make informed personal development and career choices.
Use business language and terminology appropriately to communicate information persuasively and accurately in oral, written and graphic formats.
Facilitate the completion of tasks to meet deadlines in a business environment using time management and organization skills.
Apply fundamental research skills to gather and interpret information to inform business decisions.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,823.00 *
International Tuition
$17,949.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U)
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Call the Pathway Advisor at 416-415-5000, ext. 2562 or email
preparation@georgebrown.ca
.
Learn more about our college preparation programs and work preparation programs at
School of Work and College Preparation
.
For more information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
The Pre-Business program is taught at our St. James Campus at 341 King St. E., Toronto, Ontario. Sign up for an
information session
, book a
campus tour
or explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
International Business Management (Postgraduate) (B411)
Human Resources Management (Postgraduate) (B408)
"I had a lot of anxieties about returning to school as a mature student after 10 years away from a classroom setting. The Pre-Business program was an excellent opportunity for me to ease into the college environment while earning course credits for my subsequent Business Administration – Human Resources program. The staff and faculty were steadfast in their support and encouragement of my academic goals, and definitely contributed to my success at George Brown."
Lacey Fontaine
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.