Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Advanced Diplomas and Degrees Program (A108)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Advanced Diplomas and Degrees
Code:
A108
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (2 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,926.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,974.00 **
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Work & College Preparation
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Open
Opens Aug 6, 2024
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Graduates from the (A108) program with a previous degree in any field who are looking to become a
Doctor of Medicine (MD)
have a unique opportunity in Ontario to apply to
St. George’s University
,
Grenada, West Indies. (A108) courses will qualify as the science requirement for this program.
Program Overview
George Brown College’s Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Advanced Diplomas and Degrees
one-year certificate program paves the way for your success in advanced diploma and degree-level health science programs.
In our nurturing learning environment, you'll uncover the many possibilities that the world of health sciences offers. We'll guide you in mapping out your educational pathway, ensuring that you're on track to achieve your career goals.
PLEASE NOTE:
If you're aiming to fulfil the admission prerequisites needed to apply to a one-year certificate or two-year diploma health sciences program, apply to our
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
program.
Full Description
George Brown College’s Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Advanced Diplomas and Degrees (A108)
one-year certificate program
will prepare you for admission into a variety of college or university health sciences programs.
This exciting full-time program will equip you with the academic requirements needed for an advanced diploma or degree-level program, both within George Brown and with several partner institutions.
Classes are Monday to Friday, 8 AM to 6 PM, and will strengthen your existing knowledge while building new skills in:
communication
mathematics
human anatomy
biology
physics
organic/inorganic chemistry
advanced level English
elective courses that may be eligible for transfer credits in other programs where applicable
To review our list of pathway programs, including a unique opportunity to enrol in a Doctor of Medicine (MD) program, visit the Career and Postgraduate Study Opportunities tab on the left side of this page.
PLEASE NOTE:
If you're aiming to fulfil the admission prerequisites needed to apply to a one-year certificate or two-year diploma health sciences program, apply to our
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Educational Pathways
George Brown College has developed a number of advanced diploma and degree program pathways to help you reach your academic and future career goals.
Advanced Diploma Program Pathways:
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Advanced Diplomas and Degrees (A108) graduates interested in pursuing a George Brown College advanced diploma
can apply to these programs:
Dental Hygiene (S134)
Dental Technology (S100)
Denturism (S101)
Hearing Instrument Specialist (S117)
Degree Program Pathways:
Bachelor of Health Sciences
Graduates of the Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Advanced Diplomas and Degrees program are eligible to apply to:
Queen's University Bachelor of Health Sciences (BHSc)
(in-person or online stream). This (BHSc) program offers pathways into medical school, dentistry and pharmacy medicine.
Trent University - various Bachelor of Sciences degrees (not including Bachelor of Science - Nursing)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BScN)
The following
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BScN)
programs will consider applications from (A108) graduates:
Brock University – Honours Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Humber College – Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Laurentian University – Bachelor of Science in Nursing
McMaster University – Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Seneca College – Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Trent University/Fleming College – Collaborative Bachelor of Science in Nursing
University of Ottawa – Honours Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Western University/Fanshawe College – Collaborative Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Doctor of Medicine (MD):
Unique in Ontario
George Brown is pleased to offer (A108) graduates with a previous degree in any field who are looking to become a doctor a pathway unique in Ontario! Graduates from this program can apply to the
Doctor of Medicine (MD)
at
St. George’s University
,
Grenada, West Indies. (A108) courses will qualify as the science requirement for this program.
PLEASE NOTE
: Applicants interested in pursuing a one-year certificate or two-year college diploma health sciences program should apply to George Brown’s
Pre-Health Sciences Pathway to Certificates and Diplomas (A109)
program.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
BIOL 1052
Biology for Health Sciences I – Degree Pathway
CHEM 1022
Chemistry for Health Sciences I – Degree Pathway
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
MATH 1143
Mathematics for Health Sciences I – Degree Pathway
PHY 1014
Physics for Health Sciences I – Degree Pathway
PREP 1012
Personal and Professional Development
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
BIOL 1062
Biology for Health Sciences II – Degree Pathway
CHEM 1032
Chemistry for Health Sciences II – Degree Pathway
PREP 1025
Speaking With Confidence
MATH 1153
Mathematics for Health Sciences II – Degree Pathway
COMM 1180
Writing and Critical Thinking for Health Sciences
PHY 1024
Physics for Health Sciences II – Degree Pathway
GNED ????
General Education Elective (Choose One)
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
Program Learning Outcomes
Examine biological concepts, processes and systems of the human body, including genetics and epigenetics, as well as the structure, function and properties of the molecules of life, cells, tissues and organ systems in relation to homeostasis, physical development and health.
Examine concepts, processes and systems of chemistry, including atomic and molecular structure; quantities in chemical reactions; solutions and solubility; acids and bases; as well as organic chemistry and biochemistry in relation to health and the human body.
Solve numeric problems and interpret data related to health sciences and other science-related fields using mathematical concepts, including algebra and probability, along with descriptive and inferential statistics.
Use health sciences and other science-related language and terminology appropriately to communicate clearly, concisely, and correctly in written, spoken, and visual forms.
Prepare a personal strategy and plan for academic, career and professional development in the health sciences or other science-related fields.
Investigate health sciences and science-related questions, problems and evidence using the scientific method.
Examine fundamental physics laws and concepts and their application to health sciences and other science-related fields.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,926.00 *
International Tuition
$17,974.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12C English (65 per cent or higher) or grade 12U English
grade 12 math (C or U) (65 per cent or higher)
senior level biology, chemistry or physics recommended
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
** MATURE STUDENT STATUS (19 YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER AND NO OSSD)
Mature Students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English and Math, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
and
math
.
If you do not meet all of the A108 program requirements, please consider applying to the A109 Pre-Health Science Pathways to Certificates and Diplomas program.
COURSE EXEMPTIONS
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Contact the Pathway Advisor via email at
preparation@georgebrown.ca
or via telephone at 416-415-5000, ext. 2874 for more program information.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.