Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC) Technician II Program (Distance Education) (T949)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC) Technician II
Code:
T949
Credential:
George Brown College Certificate
Method of Study:
Part-time
Duration:
32 weeks (approximately)
Starting Months:
Open enrolment
Domestic Tuition:
$1,700.00*
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Mechanical Engineering Technologies
Location:
Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Not Available
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Winter
2025
Not Available
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Spring
2025
Not Available
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC) Technician (Distance Education) (T903)
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Robotics Technician (Distance Education) (T948)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program
does not qualify for study/work permit (including PGWP) eligibility in Canada.
The PLC Technician II Certificate program introduces the theory behind Programmable Logic Controllers while maintaining an emphasis on the application of PLCs in plant and manufacturing systems. The PLC Technician II program provides a more advanced study of PLCs in manufacturing, including DCS & SCADA systems. The PLCLogix 5000 simulator integrated within the program emulates the Studio 5000/RSLogix 5000 programming applications and features 3D simulation and advanced programming.
ADVANCED STANDING
If you have finished the PLC Technician program, you will receive credit for exemptions from 7 modules of the PLC Technician II program.
Full Description
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program
does not qualify for study/work permit (including PGWP) eligibility in Canada.
The PLC Technician II Certificate program provides an advanced study of PLCs in manufacturing, including Distributed Control Systems (DCS), Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Systems (SCADA) and advanced programming languages. Students can develop and practice their programming skills, test and troubleshoot PLC ladder logic circuits and learn the operation of tag-based PLCs in a realistic simulated environment.
The program includes PLCLogix 5000, the state-of-the-art simulator that emulates the operation of a ControlLogix controller and the Studio 5000/Rockwell RSLogix 5000 software providing comprehensive coverage of tag-based PLC programming. The simulation software includes over 250 pre-built lab projects and 10 manufacturing environments (3D worlds) that graphically simulate process control operations for the following applications: batch mixing, bottling line, dual-compressor, elevator, moving car wash, silo, single-compressor, stationary car wash, traffic lights, and warehouse door.​
This distance education certificate program meets the needs of both employers who require a highly skilled technical workforce and students who require cost-effective, high-quality and accredited technical training.
You complete all the required modules (including lab projects, review exercises and practice exams) from the comfort of your own home using an interactive learning package.
The learning materials, provided in a web-based downloadable file format with 19 courses (modules), contain text, audio, 2D and 3D animations, computer-based testing and PLCLogix 5000 simulation software.
A final exam is taken online (computer-based testing) for each module. You may enrol in this distance education certificate program at any time (open enrolment) and complete each module at your own pace. The typical completion time for this program is 32 weeks, but there are no time limits.
PREREQUISITES
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (with credits at or above general level) or equivalent or mature student status. If you have minimal or no background in PLCs, we recommend that you begin your studies by taking this foundation PLC Technician program.
Program Specific Computer Requirements
Minimum Computer Requirements
Intel Core i3, i5, i7, AMD Ryzen 3, 5, 7 or equivalent processor
4GB RAM
500 MB of available disk space
Windows 7/ Windows 8/Windows 8.1/Windows 10/Windows 11
32 and 64 bit compatible
Internet Access
Email Account
Note: Our program software is strictly made for Windows Operating Systems and will therefore only run on Windows-based computers. It will
NOT
work on Apple computers running Mac Operating Systems such as Macbook, Chromebook computers running Chrome Operating Systems such as Google Pixelbook or any device running Linux Operating Systems.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
This certificate program prepares you to work in the rapidly expanding field of industrial automation and control. PLC technicians install and repair industrial electronic equipment, including I/O networks, data highways, variable speed drives and process control equipment, and write PLC programs for various automated control systems, ranging from simple on-off control systems to robotics.
PLC technicians also find employment in the industrial engineering field, where they are actively involved in designing and implementing PLC control systems. This distance education program meets the needs of employers requiring a highly skilled technical workforce and students requiring cost-effective, high-quality and fully accredited technical training.
Courses
Required Courses
The modules should be taken in the following order:
COMPULSORY (19)
Code
Course Name
ELNC 9127
Introduction to Advanced PLCs
ELNC 9094
PLC Processors
ELNC 9073
I/O System
ELNC 9074
Programming Terminals and Peripherals
ELNC 9075
Installation and Maintenance of PLCs
ELNC 9124
Tag-Based PLCs
ELNC 9095
Ladder Logic Programming
ELNC 9078
Timers
ELNC 9079
Counters
ELNC 9096
Branch and Loop Control
ELNC 9081
Sequencers
ELNC 9097
Data Handling
ELNC 9098
Math Instructions
ELNC 9084
Process Control
ELNC 9099
PLC Communication
ELNC 9118
Distributed Control System (DCS)
ELNC 9119
SCADA System
ELNC 9093
Advanced Programming Languages
ELNC 9092
Robotics
Detailed course outline
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$1,700.00*
Additional Costs
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
There is no additional cost. Students can pay tuition in full or pay-as-you-learn option as below
Initial registration is $440 (includes all learning materials, laboratory simulation software and access to the Module 1 exam) and registration for each of the remaining 18 modules is $70/module. Students may register for one or more modules at any time. International applicants are charged the same fees but in U.S. dollars (US$440); the posted exchange rate in effect at the time of your registration will be used to determine the final fee in Canadian dollars. There is no refund on learning material.
* Amounts listed are the total of tuition for programs starting in
Fall 2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
The academic prerequisites for students entering into the PLC Technician II is an Ontario Secondary School Diploma (with credits at or above general level) or equivalent or mature student status.
If you are 19 years or older and do not have a high school diploma, you may enrol as a mature student.
Previous practical PLC experience is helpful but not essential.
Special Requirements
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
How to Apply
Call 416-415-4726 or see
www.plctechnician.com
.
Contact Us
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online distance program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Call us at 416-415-4726, or toll-free at 1-888-553-5333.
Email:
info@gbctechtraining.com
.
Check out the course details along with our interactive video tour at
plctechnician.com
.
Explore related programs:
Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC) Technician (Distance Education) (T903)
Electromechanical Engineering Technician (T146)
Robotics Technician (Distance Education) (T948)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.