Recreation Management in Gerontology Program (C152)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Recreation Management in Gerontology
Code:
C152
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,932.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,065.00 **
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Health & Wellness
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Required field education in all four semesters
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Personal Support Worker (PSW) (C112)
Hearing Instrument Specialist (S117)
Community Worker (C101)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
This Ontario College Diploma program is unique in Ontario.
Program Overview
The
Recreation Management in Gerontology
program will provide you with specialized knowledge in the field of aging and the ability to design and deliver meaningful therapeutic programs to enhance the quality of life of older adults.
Graduates of this program meet and exceed the requirements as outlined in the
Fixing Long-Term Care Act
to work as the recreation lead or as a recreation team staff member.
Full Description
The
Recreation Management in Gerontology
(C152)
diploma program will teach you the specialized skills you need to work with older adults. Over the course of two years, you’ll learn how to design therapeutic activity programs for older adults that consider the physical, mental, emotional, social and spiritual perspectives of the aging process. This is a well-established and industry-respected program that has been training students in the field for over 30 years.
You’ll learn to develop strong interpersonal communication skills that will support your ability to work with people across different life stages—an essential aspect of this job. You will also develop effective business communication skills that will help prepare you to co-ordinate and manage physical, financial and human resources of a recreation department.
You’ll study the science and theory behind aging and will take an in-depth look at the biological changes of aging. You will gain an understanding of diseases often related to aging, like Alzheimer's. This program will provide you with new ways of thinking about dementia and innovative ways of meeting the needs of those in your care using the DementiAbilitiy methods. In addition, you will have the opportunity to explore complementary and alternative therapies and examine perspectives about end-of-life care.
You will have hands-on training to practise and apply what you are learning both on-site at our nearly 24,000+-square-foot
Simulation Centre
facility, and off-site with one of our 600+ field placement partners.
We will prepare you for a career in a health-care setting by using the latest industry software. You will learn proper documentation techniques and how to use comprehensive care planning tools such as Resident Assessment Instrument – Minimum Data Set (RAI-MDS) training.
This long-standing program will equip you with the skills you need to successfully create and deliver innovative, specialized therapeutic recreational programs for older adults in a variety of settings that include long-term care facilities, retirement homes, hospitals, community-based service agencies and adult day programs.
Apply to this program if you are energetic, organized, creative, and enjoy working with older adults and want a rewarding career.
PLEASE NOTE
: Some of our clinical or work placement partners may require students to show proof of full vaccination. As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame. Full COVID-19 vaccination means the student must provide proof of two doses and a QR code.
Your Field Education Options
Field education, also known as work-integrated learning, plays an important role in this Recreation Management in Gerontology program by integrating theoretical learning with practical experience in a workplace setting. Field education is offered in each semester, with each experience building on the previous one.
You can expect to complete your field placements in a variety of health-care settings and with older adults of differing needs and abilities.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
The increase in the number of older adults in Canada has created a growing demand for workers with knowledge and skills specific to the needs of later life.
Recreation Management in Gerontology graduates are employed to provide person-centred care through the management and delivery of recreational and social activities in a variety of settings, such as:
adult day centres
active living centres
community centres
long-term care homes
retirement homes
community-based service agencies
Educational Pathways
Graduates of the Recreation Management in Gerontology program with a grade point average of 2.8 or higher can apply to complete a three-year B.A. in gerontology at Laurentian University in a reduced time frame (approximately 12–18 months). The exact time of completion will depend on existing post-secondary credentials. This degree is offered through distance education or at the Laurentian campus in Sudbury, Ontario. For more information, contact
admissions@laurentian.ca
.
Graduates with a B.A. in gerontology from Laurentian University can apply to complete the Recreation Management in Gerontology diploma in one year. For more information, email Program Co-ordinator and Professor Pamela Gauci – pamela.gauci@georgebrown.ca.
Graduates of a health sciences program who have an interest in working in long-term care facilities should consider applying to our
Interprofessional Complex and Long-Term Care (S417) postgraduate certificate
.
(S417) Program Details:
two-semester program
you will learn to co-ordinate and manage an interprofessional healthcare team of complex and long-term care professionals
delivered online and on-demand to accommodate working professionals
includes a clinical field placement component
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
COMM 1081
Interpersonal Communication Skills
GERT 1004
Recreation I: Therapeutic Interventions
GERT 1038
Pre-Placement Seminar
GERT 1018
Field Practice I
GERT 1035
Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Disorders
GERT 1033
Introduction to Gerontology
GERT 1010
Aging in Place
GERT 1025
Integrated Seminar I
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communication (If necessary)
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
GERT 1002
Fitness and Wellness
GERT 1015
Recreation II: Therapeutic Programming
GERT 1020
Field Practice II
GERT 1027
Integrated Seminar II
GERT 1012
Assessment Skills and Inter-RAI Methodology
GERT 1036
Management I: Foundation Skills
GERT 1160
Introduction to the Biology of Aging
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts**
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
GERT 2004
Management II: Professional Development
GERT 2009
Field Practice III
GERT 2016
Integrated Seminar III
GERT 2028
Recreation III: Alternative Therapeutic Programming
GERT 2031
Ethical and Professional Leadership
SWRK 2001
Group Processes
GNED
General Education Elective
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
GERT 2006
Activation Industry Resources
GERT 2023
Governance of Services for Older Adults
GERT 1043
Living with Dying
GERT 2011
Field Practice IV
GERT 1014
Psychogeriatrics
GERT 2018
Integrated Seminar IV
SWRK 2000
Management III: Human Resources
GNED
General Education Elective
General Education Electives
** Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 2000. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
web page for more information.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Function effectively as a member of an interprofessional team in the development and provision of health-promoting and life-enhancing services and programs for older adults.
Accurately and comprehensively assess and record the ongoing needs of the older adult using a variety of widely used electronic systems.
Develop, coordinate, deliver and evaluate a variety of services/programs that enhance clients’ level of functioning and quality of life by applying relevant research and theory to practice.
Apply appropriate health and safety protocols in order to protect the health, safety and well-being of their clients, their co-workers and themselves.
Communicate effectively using a variety of therapeutic techniques and in adherence with privacy and freedom of information legislation.
Identify, select and use appropriate professional and community resources to meet the needs of the older adult.
Ensure programs operate in compliance with relevant policy, legislation and standards of practice for services to older adults in a variety of settings.
Establish and maintain professional and ethical standards in the field of activation gerontology as set out by relevant professional bodies.
Promote accessible, inclusive and responsive programs and services by recognizing the diverse needs and experiences of individuals, groups, families and communities.
Manage physical, financial and human resources in order to effectively coordinate services for older adults.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,932.00 *
International Tuition
$18,065.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses and the selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C ) or (U) with a minimum grade of 60 per cent
attending an information session is highly recommended.
Admissions decisions are based on academic credit; however, it is recommended that applicants accumulate at least 40 volunteer hours, working with older adults, prior to applying.
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment
for English, OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice, and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form requirements and program policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 8 to 10 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as Two-Step TB Skin Test, COVID-19 and flu shot) and proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year. These requirements must be submitted by the program specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination:
Public Health recommends that people working with young children and other vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  As such, students who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 may not be able to complete the required field placement component of their program in the regularly scheduled time frame.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student. To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy (renew every year)
In compliance with requests from our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a Vulnerable Sector Check completed, and this check must be renewed every year before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the police record check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” vulnerable sector check may not be able to start their field or clinical placement and therefore may be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment.
The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Call the George Brown School of Health and Wellness at 416-415-5000, ext. 2367 between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. or E-mail
hwprograms@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Personal Support Worker (PSW) (C112)
Hearing Instrument Specialist (S117)
Community Worker (C101)
Watch this short testimonial from a Recreation Management in Gerontology student to hear about her recent learning experience in the program.
Lynn Wei, Recreation Management in Gerontology (C152) Student
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.