Registered Nurse – Perinatal Intensive Care Nursing Program (Postgraduate) (S404)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Registered Nurse – Perinatal Intensive Care Nursing
Code:
S404
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
15 weeks (1 semester)
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$2,363.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Clinical Placement
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Not Available
Winter
2025
Open
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing (Postgraduate) (S402)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing registered nurses to work in neonatal intensive care units for over 50 years.
Program Overview
The one-semester
Registered Nurse – Perinatal Intensive Care Nursing (Postgraduate) (S404)
program trains registered nurses to provide care for critically ill newborns and their families in an intensive care setting.
Full Description
Registered Nurse – Perinatal Intensive Care Nursing (Postgraduate) (S404)
is a program for registered nurses. Students will learn to provide comprehensive care to
critically ill newborns
and their families in a
neonatal intensive care unit
(NICU). Research and theoretical perspectives provide the foundation of study for family-centred intensive care.
DELIVERY MODES
This
full-time, one-semester (15 weeks) graduate certificate program
is offered in
two
learning streams
to support learners with different levels of experience in neonatal nursing.
Full-time –
Standard
learning
stream
(15 weeks): Offered in September and January
. This stream of learning provides comprehensive teaching for registered nurses who have no current experience in neonatal nursing. Students attend synchronous-learning classes three full days per week. Lectures, case studies and expert guest speakers comprise the theoretical component. Completion of two clinical courses is mandatory.
Full-time –
Accelerated learning
stream
(15 weeks): Offered in September and January.
This stream of learning is available to nurses with at least one year of current experience caring for neonates, typically in a Level II or III NICU. Online interactive classes occur twice a week for discussion and facilitation of learning of the theoretical concepts. Class attendance is strongly recommended; recordings will be available. Completion of a successful application of Prior Learning Assessment and Recognition (PLAR) for current NICU experience will provide credit for one or both clinical courses within the Perinatal program.
Regardless of the
learning stream
, all students use:
a theory manual
a textbook
Faculty are available to support
learner
s
in a variety of ways:
during class through routine question and answer
online meeting platforms or through email
via telephone
tutorial support
To support the learning outcomes of this course, clinical courses take place in Level II and/or Level III neonatal intensive care units.
PLEASE NOTE:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
Your Field Education Options
Clinical placement is a key component of George Brown College's Registered Nurse – Perinatal Intensive Care Nursing program.
To support student learning outcomes, clinical courses will occur in Level II and/or Level III hospital neonatal intensive care units.
To ensure correct understanding and application of theory, learners will practise under the supervision of a clinical teacher or preceptor to develop:
specialized knowledge
nursing assessment skills
clinical competencies
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of George Brown College's Registered Nurse – Perinatal Intensive Care Nursing program are qualified to work in Level II and Level III neonatal intensive care units.
Courses
Required Courses
Code
Course Name
NURS 4048
Perinatal Nursing – Theory
NURS 4049
Perinatal Nursing – Clinical
NURS 4050
Neonatal Intensive Care – Theory
NURS 4051
Neonatal Intensive Care – Clinical
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has demonstrated the required knowledge and ability to:
Practice within the scope of professional, legal, and ethical standards, organization policies, and best practices in neonatal critical care nursing.
Establish and maintain therapeutic relationships with families and/or substitute decision-makers to optimize patient and family-centered neonatal critical care.
Assess, analyze, and monitor clinical data for term and preterm neonates with unifocal or complex, multi-system problems, and anticipate potential deterioration in a neonate’s condition, establish priorities and to plan nursing interventions.
Collaborate with families and members of the interprofessional health-care team in providing care for neonates experiencing potential or current life-threatening illness or end-of-life situations to deliver comprehensive nursing care.
Apply evidence-based research and best practice guidelines to inform and adapt neonatal nursing practice.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$2,363.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for
one semester
of the program starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Financial Assistance
RNs registered to practise in Ontario and employed in a Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care (MOHLTC) priority area may be eligible for a Nursing Education Initiative (NEI) grant to support their education and professional development. To learn more about this program, visit
rnao.ca/education-funding/nei
.
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Registered Nurse
, Certificate of Competence, College of Nurses of Ontario
without practice restrictions
BCLS (Heart and Stroke Foundation), HCP Level
completion of secondary intake form after initial application
resumé
NRP (Neonatal Resuscitation Program) certificate is required
This program is open to domestic applicants only.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form: Requirements and Program Policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory Pre-placement requirements for this program. It will take up to 8 to 10 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as TDAP shot, COVID-19, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres and Two-Step TB Skin Test), proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year,
Basic Life Support certificate
renewed every two years, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the program specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Vulnerable Sector Check: Requirements and Program Policy (Renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a
Vulnerable Sector Check
completed, and this check must be renewed every year before entering into field or clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Vulnerable Sector Check will not be able to start their field or clinical placement and will therefore be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program. Our agency partners have the final decision for students being allowed to practice in their agency.
Failure to meet the requirements for field placement will prevent students from completing the program and/or securing employment. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary and must be paid by the student. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Please note: Due to the limited number of clinical placements, this program has a limited number of seats available. Domestic learners should apply through Ontario Colleges; upon receipt of application, the George Brown College admissions officer will then send an intake document for candidates to complete and return to
Jennifer.young2@georgebrown.ca
Contact Us
Contact Professor
Jennifer Young
at the
George Brown College Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing by
email
Jennifer.Young2@georgebrown.ca
for more information.
For general information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing (Postgraduate) (S402)
"As a Registered Nurse already working in a level II NICU, I was itching to do more, experience more, and learn more. To help me achieve my goal I decided to choose the Perinatal Intensive Course at George Brown College. It was the best decision I ever made. Right from the start, I knew that taking this course would make me a better nurse and overall a better person – professional and personally.
The program was a short 15-week program divided into in-class lectures, hands-on clinical days, high fidelity simulation labs and lectures from speciality staff from SickKids. The program catered to and incorporated all types of learning. We got a chance to learn from the NICU clinicians. There were days when each subspecialty would come in to give a lecture – whether it was the dietician, surgical NP, genetic counsellor, bioethicists, RTs, etc. The program was delivered in various forms such as online lectures, workbooks, textbook readings, case studies, clinical skills learning package, simulation labs, journals references, group discussions, etc.
Heather (program professor and co-ordinator) is absolutely phenomenal. She is very knowledgeable about the program and helped me with every step up until the start date. Jennifer also teaches this course in collaboration with Heather. Jennifer made teaching so simple and easy to understand! Our clinical instructor, Sasha, was exceptional. I was able to complete my tasks in the NICU feeling safe, and supported throughout.
This program is unique in the way that it is built. It is well organized and structured. There is a flow in the way the material is taught. I particularly liked the connection that could be made while learning the theory and being able to apply it simultaneously in the practice setting. I would highly recommend this program for anyone new to the NICU world or even to those who have a few years under their belt. The time, money, and effort endured while doing this program will not disappoint. It helped me connect the dots in all the things I was seeing, and knowing why it was happening and what my role is as a NICU nurse. I have seen and felt an increase in my confidence and nursing skills. I am able to use my critical thinking skills and judgement gained from this course in all levels of the NICU.
To all the people I met during this program, thank you for allowing me to achieve my dreams of working in the Sickkids NICU – I appreciate it! I learned a tremendous amount of information that I will cherish for the rest of my nursing career as a neonatal nurse."
Fiona Cabral
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.