Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing Program (Postgraduate) (S402)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing
Code:
S402
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 semester
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$2,329.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Not Available
Winter
2025
Open
Not Available
Spring
2025
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
Preparing registered nurses to work in hospital critical care units for over 40 years.
Program Overview
The
Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing
program is a one-semester graduate certificate program that prepares registered nurses to provide safe, competent care to critically ill individuals and their families.
Full Description
The
Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing (Postgraduate) (S402)
program trains registered nurses on how to provide competent care to critically ill individuals and their families.
The combined theory and clinical courses encompass the
Level 1, 2 and 3 Critical Care Standards of Practice
as outlined by the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care and Critical Care Nursing Standards from the Ministry of Colleges and Universities (MCU).
This program is offered at the Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences at the Waterfront Campus.
Structured clinical courses provide nurses with a safe learning environment to practise critical care knowledge, skills and judgment in critical care units across the Greater Toronto Area.
Due to the limited number of clinical placements available, this program has a restricted number of seats open to applicants.
PLEASE NOTE:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
Your Field Education Options
Clinical placement is a key component of the Registered Nurse – Critical Care Nursing program.
Placements are conducted with a partner hospital in their critical care unit. Students will be expected to spend 232 hours in a critical care environment under the supervision of a preceptor and a clinical facilitator as a requirement to complete the program.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Registered Nurse - Critical Care Nursing (S402) graduates are prepared to work in a variety of critical care units, including:
medical-surgical
neuro-surgical
trauma
coronary
cardiovascular
Many hospitals have chosen our program (through sponsorship) to prepare their registered nurses to work in this dynamic specialty field.
Courses
Required Courses
Code
Course Name
NURS 4059
Critical Care Nursing – Theory and Labs
NURS 4042
Critical Care Nursing – Practicum-General
NURS 4043
Critical Care Nursing – Theory (Advanced)
NURS 4044
Critical Care Nursing – Practicum (Advanced)
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Practice within the scope of professional, legal and ethical standards, organization policies and best practices in critical care nursing.
Establish and maintain therapeutic relationships with patients, families and/or substitute decision-makers to optimize patient and family-centred critical care.
Assess, analyze and monitor data for patients with complex, multi-system problems in order to anticipate early deterioration in patient’s condition, establish priorities and plan interventions.
Plan, implement, evaluate and document specialized nursing interventions to achieve optimal patient outcomes in potential or actual life threatening illness and end-of-life situations.
Advocate for and deliver patient and family-centred care to patients/families experiencing potential or actual life-threatening illness and end-of-life situations.
Collaborate with members of the interprofessional health-care team in providing care for patients experiencing potential or actual life-threatening illness and end-of-life situations to achieve continuity of care and optimal patient outcomes.
Use evidence-based research and best practice guidelines to inform and adapt critical care nursing practice.
Use strategies and available resources to respond to environmental, physical and psychosocial stressors affecting self and others in the critical care setting.
Engage in reflective practice and ongoing professional development to enhance competence in critical care nursing.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$2,329.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for
one semester
of the program starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
RN
, Certificate of Competence, College of Nurses of Ontario
without practice restrictions
, and BCLS (Heart and Stroke Foundation), HCP Level
one year of acute care nursing experience in Ontario
Only sponsored applicants are eligible to apply to this program.
If you would like more information about sponsorship to this program and how to meet the admission requirements, please contact
nursing@georgebrown.ca
.
This program is open to domestic applicants only.
Special Requirements
Clinical Pre-placement Health Form: Requirements and Program Policy
Upon confirmation of acceptance into this program, students must meet and complete all the mandatory pre-placement requirements. It will take up to 8 to 10 weeks to complete.
Students will need to process and provide proof of their
medical records
(such as TDAP shot, COVID-19, MMR, Varicella, Hep B blood test reports/titres and Two-Step TB Skin Test), proof of clear
Vulnerable Sector Check
renewed every year, annual flu shot and
mask fit test
renewed every two years. These requirements must be submitted by the program specific deadline to
ParaMed Placement Pass website
.
COVID-19 vaccination:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  Clinical partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
The health policies and non-academic requirements are designed to protect clients and vulnerable populations whom students will engage in practice. Students who do not comply with the program’s health policy and non-academic requirements, or who do not submit all required documentation by deadlines established by the program will be excluded from the clinical practicum. Exclusion from clinical practicum for any reason may jeopardize students' academic standing and successful completion of this program.
All costs, service fees and fines associated with the overall health requirements are the responsibility of the student.
To download the mandatory Pre-placement health form and for more details, go to the
Clinical Pre-placement website.
Vulnerable Sector Check: Requirements and Program Policy (Renew every year)
In compliance with the requirements of our clinical placement partners, all students in this program are required to have a
Vulnerable Sector Check
completed, and this check must be renewed every year before entering into clinical placement.
The Vulnerable Sector Check process typically takes two to three months, but under some circumstances can take four to eight months. This is required to protect the clientele of our placement partner agencies, who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law.
Students are responsible for ensuring that the Vulnerable Sector Check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).
Students are required to keep the original copy of their Vulnerable Sector Check.
Students who are unable to provide a “clear” Vulnerable Sector Check will not be able to start their field or clinical placement and will therefore be unable to complete the program. Students who are not eligible to attend their practice placement due to a “not clear” status will jeopardize their progress in the program. Our agency partners have the final decision for students being allowed to practice in their agency.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
For more information on this program, please contact:
Professor Anisa Khan
416-415-5000, ext. 2860
akhan@georgebrown.ca
or
Colleen Alleyne
416-415-5000, ext. 5824
calleyne3@georgebrown.ca
For general information about George Brown College, call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.