Residential Construction Management Program (Postgraduate) (T408)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Residential Construction Management
Code:
T408
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 semesters
Starting Months:
May, September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,910.00 *
Centre:
Construction & Engineering Technologies
School:
Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management
Location:
Casa Loma Campus
Experiential Learning:
Placement with a member firm of RESCON
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Not Available
Not Available
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Open
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Building Information Modeling Management (BIM) (Postgraduate) (T412)
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T312)
Construction Engineering Technology (T105)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
Click here to check availability for Spring 2024
In the
Residential Construction Management
postgraduate certificate program, you'll develop specialized skills employers value: procurement, quality control, and defects prevention. Class and lab work are project-based to replicate on-site construction and expose you to industry practices.
Note:
You may be eligible for a partial tuition scholarship sponsored by RESCON.
Full Description
In collaboration with the
Residential Construction Council of Ontario
(RESCON), the
Residential Construction Management
graduate certificate program is open to domestic graduates of advanced three-year diplomas in Construction Engineering Technology, Civil Engineering Technology, and Building Renovation Technology. In this program, you'll broaden your existing skills for working on low-rise and high-rise residential construction projects. You'll gain experience in estimating, scheduling, and controlling costs of residential construction projects, while also ensuring compliance with health and safety laws and regulations.
Through project-based coursework and hands-on labs, you'll simulate on-site construction scenarios, gaining extensive exposure to the latest industry practices and procedures. This experiential approach will set you up to meet the demands of the field.
Key features of the program:
Limited class sizes provide increased access to lab facilities, site visits, and instructor interaction.
A four-month field placement arranged by RESCON provides you with real-life opportunities to practice skills learned in the first semester.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
After graduating, you'll be able to take on entry-level roles in the residential construction sector, such as:
estimator
residential construction manager
residential construction project manager
site superintendent
project co-ordinator
Industry
The Residential Construction Management postgraduate program was developed in response to industry demand for graduates with exposure to the residential sector, supported by endowment from RESCON. Together, George Brown and RESCON have created a co-operative education program specifically focused on the needs of the residential sector (both low-rise and high-rise). This partnership allows students to complete a four-month intensive semester at the Centre for Construction & Engineering Technologies, followed by a four-month field placement at a RESCON member firm. The program has been successfully preparing graduates with on-the-job experience in the residential sector since its launch in 2013.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
BLDG 4011
Quality Control & Defect Prevention
BLDG 4012
Home Design & Value Engineering
BLDG 4013
Purchasing and Bid Processes
BLDG 4014
Residential Construction Project Management
BLDG 4015
High-Rise Residential Construction
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
BLDG 1080
Field Placement (4 months) from September to December
The program is continuously reviewed and adjusted to meet the needs of the construction industry and therefore may be subject to change.
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Assess requirements for construction industry business planning and management.
Formulate strategies for human resource planning and management.
Analyze and explain the fundamentals of building codes and legal issues including contract law.
Assess safe work practices including risk analysis and risk management theory, assisting in the formulation of options on the basis of specific project/operational requirements.
Produce, analyze and present data in graphic, oral and written formats to communicate residential construction project information effectively and accurately.
Estimate, schedule and control costs of residential construction proficiently, in accordance with best practices in construction management.
Coordinate time, cost and quantity for the successful completion of work for residential construction projects.
Select and use appropriate electronic technology to support residential construction projects.
Formulate the principles and practice of team-building in an interdisciplinary setting, and integrate negotiation and problem-solving skills.
Analyze technical problems and integrate the knowledge of mechanical, structural and finish components of buildings in a residential project.
Evaluate technical and historic construction field information for use on bidding on and planning residential construction projects.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,910.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Three-year advanced diploma in Construction Engineering Technology or Civil Engineering Technology or Building Renovation Technology*
Minimum program GPA of 2.7.
Department interview (resumé required).
Space is limited.
* Main criteria to determine equivalency will be based on gained knowledge of the following:
wood-frame construction details and principles
Canadian construction industry standards, procedures, protocols and codes
Canadian estimating and bidding practices
Please note that domestic applicants who are submitting international transcripts require a Canadian equivalency evaluation. This can be obtained through
ICAS (International Credential Assessment Service)
or
WES (World Education Services)
. We recommend that you provide a comprehensive ( course-by-course) evaluation for consideration, as this will be required when assessing your application package. We will also accept general evaluations, which show the Canadian equivalency, however if a general evaluation is provided, we will also require a course-by-course translation in support of your application.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit
English Proficiency
for more details.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Angelo DelZotto School of Construction Management
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 6297
Email:
construction_mgmt@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Visit Our Campus
Do you have questions about this program or your career options? Join us for an on-campus information session. You'll have the opportunity to meet our friendly instructors and staff, ask questions and experience what it's like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an information session
.
Explore related programs:
Building Information Modeling Management (BIM) (Postgraduate) (T412)
Honours Bachelor of Technology (Construction Management) (T312)
Construction Engineering Technology (T105)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.