RPN Bridge to BScN Program (Postgraduate) (S442)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
RPN Bridge to BScN
Code:
S442
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 semesters
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$7,022.00 *
Centre:
Health Sciences
School:
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Location:
Waterfront Campus
Experiential Learning:
Clinical Placement
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Not Available
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
R.P.N. Bridge to B.Sc.N.
two-semester bridging program provides registered practical nurses (RPNs) with the knowledge and skills necessary to enter Trent University's B.Sc.N. degree program offered on-site at George Brown.
Full Description
The
R.P.N. Bridge to B.Sc.N. (S442)
bridging program offers registered practical nurses (RPNs) the knowledge and skills necessary to enter Trent University's B.Sc.N. degree program. To be eligible, RPNs must have graduated from a two-year diploma program in Ontario with a minimum 75 per cent cumulative program average.
Upon successful completion of this two-semester bridging program, students can then apply to enter Trent's nursing degree program delivered on-site at George Brown’s Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences located at our
Waterfront Campus
in downtown Toronto.
DELIVERY OF PROGRAM
The RPN Bridge program is offered through a full-time flexible delivery model and is delivered in a hybrid format that includes both in-class and online learning.
The semesters are delivered consecutively, with semester 1 starting in September and semester 2 starting in January.
PLEASE NOTE:
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
Your Field Education Options
Clinical placement plays an important role in this R.P.N. Bridge to B.Sc.N. program by giving students the opportunity to apply their newly learned skills and to help broaden their professional network. The clinical placement experience will take place in a simulated clinical environment or within a healthcare organization.
Students will be expected to attend their placement each week during semester 2 of the program.
Public Health continues to recommend that people working with vulnerable communities be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  Clinical agency partners continue to require students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be approved to complete clinical placements within their facilities. Agencies have the right to decline the placement of students who are not fully vaccinated, and students who are not vaccinated are at risk of not being able to complete their clinical placement course requirements.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Educational Pathways
Students who successfully complete the R.P.N. Bridge to B.Sc.N. Bridge program will be eligible to apply to Trent University’s post-bridge nursing degree program delivered on-site at George Brown College's Daphne Cockwell Centre for Health Sciences at Waterfront Campus.
NOTE: This program is offered under the terms of the Trent-George Brown College Agreement. Therefore, request for transfer to the Trent campus cannot be considered.
To be eligible for admission to Trent University’s Post-Bridge BScN Pathway, you must:
Have met the (S442) Bridge program admission criteria
and
Have graduated from the approved RPN Bridge to BScN (S442) certificate program with a minimum cumulative program average grade of 75 per cent and not less than 70 per cent grade in any course of the Bridge program for which advanced standing credit is assigned by Trent University.
The Post-Bridge B.Sc.N. pathway at Trent University, leading to an honours degree in Nursing (B.Sc.N.), consists of 20 credits. Upon completion of their RPN and approved bridge programs, students will normally have completed and received transfer credits. Students who study full-time will study for five consecutive semesters (19 months), and part-time students will study for eight consecutive semesters.
For details about the Trent Post-Bridge B.Sc.N. program, visit
Trent's website
.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course name
NURS 1093
Becoming an Ethical Practitioner
NURS 1095
Nursing Informatics in the Health-Care Information Age
NURS 1096
Introduction to Nursing Research
NURS 1072
Critical Thinking to Scholarly Writing
NURS 1074
Theoretical Foundations of Nursing
NURS 1106
Health Assessment
One University Elective
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course name
NURS 1101
Pathophysiology & Pharmacology
NURS 1084
Family and Relational Inquiry
NURS 1094
Transition to Clinical Leadership
NURS 1102
Clinical Practice
NURS 1103
Psychology – Adult Development
One University Elective
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Apply the following skills and competencies to facilitate professional accountability, collaboration, leadership, continuing competence and the practice of nursing:
communicate effectively verbally and in writing, using interpersonal skills to assume a leadership role on the clinical team
demonstrate novice-level scholarly writing
collaborate with the interprofessional team
integrate information standards, technology and information literacy tools to facilitate both client care and professional self-development
demonstrate social responsibility and advocacy for individuals, families, groups and communities in various practice situations and settings
2. Examine the basic language and goal of research, and the implication of research findings for nursing practice.
3. Demonstrate holistic, patient/family-centred care across the lifespan and continuum of care in various practice situations and settings.
4. Apply theoretical knowledge, critical thinking and problem-solving in a variety of increasingly complex health-care practice situations.
5. Demonstrate safe, effective, ethical and culturally sensitive nursing care that meets the current College of Nurses’ Professional Standards for Registered Nurses.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$7,022.00 *
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International students: This program is open to domestic applicants only.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses and the selection criteria outlined below:
Registered practical nurse (RPN) in good standing with the College of Nurses of Ontario and without practice restrictions.
Graduation from a two-year community college Practical Nursing (PN) diploma program in Ontario with a minimum cumulative program average of 75 per cent with no failed or repeated courses.
Additional Admission Information
Submission of all post-secondary transcripts from Canadian and international educational institutions attended is required for academic performance review.
Applicants with prior university or college study in fields outside of Practical Nursing must present a minimum combined grade point average (CGPA) of 2.33 (C+) and be considered “In Good Standing” with no failures in core prerequisite subjects in order to be considered. Higher CGPAs/averages may be required subject to competition.
Applicants applying with international education must present a course-by-course evaluation from WES or ICAS. Where PASS/FAIL grades are the only grades available, a letter from the issuing academic institution must indicate a minimum score for PASS.
Applicants with PASS/FAIL grades from out-of-province institutions must present a letter from the issuing academic institution to indicate a minimum passing score.
Applicants who have completed a Practical Nursing Certificate to Diploma upgrading program at a recognized community college in Ontario will be considered on an individual basis.
Applicants with prior nursing studies in a Bachelor of Nursing or Bridging program will be considered by the admissions committee on a case-by-case basis regardless of the length of study, or performance in a PN program.
All applicants offered admission require the approval of the admissions committee, comprised of representatives from Trent University and George Brown College, who will provide a detailed evaluation of core course performance and competencies for transfer of credit evaluation.
Applicants who have been absent from full-time formal Practical Nursing, Bridging or BScN education for a period of 10 years will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
S442 Conditional Offers of Admission are subject to availability and may be stopped at any point in the admissions cycle at the discretion of the Admissions Committee.
This program is open to domestic applicants only.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
Contact Us
Sally Horsfall Eaton School of Nursing
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2367
Email:
nursing@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Explore related programs:
Practical Nursing (PN) (S121)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) (S118)
Personal Support Worker Pathway to Practical Nursing (S119)
"My name is Anshumi Joshi and I originally started at George Brown College as a PSW student to get a feel for what nursing could be like. After I finished the PSW program I went on to the Pathway program and then completed the Practical Nursing Program at George Brown College. I’ve been a Practical Nurse for almost 2 years now and during this time completed the Bridge to BScN program, again at George Brown. I’m proud to say that I’ve just entered the Trent University BScN program at the George Brown College site! During this time I had the wonderful opportunity to work as a peer leader with the Student Success Program and more recently as a tutor with Accessibility Services. I hold my journey at George Brown College close to my heart since I have not only always felt incredibly supported by our faculty and student services staff, but I have also made some amazing lifelong nursing friendships. I have been lucky to find people, be it friends or faculty, who are incredibly thoughtful and inspire me with their dedication and work ethic. I will always be grateful for the wonderful experience I’ve had at George Brown College during my time from PSW to BScN student."
Anshumi Joshi
Ontario College Certificate
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.