Social Service Worker Program (C119)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Social Service Worker
Code:
C119
Credential:
Ontario College Diploma
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years (4 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$3,773.00 *
International Tuition:
$17,905.00 **
Centre:
Community Services & Early Childhood
School:
Social & Community Services
Location:
St. James Campus
Experiential Learning:
Field Placement
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
Community Worker (C101)
Child and Youth Care (C133)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
George Brown College has been preparing Social Service Worker graduates to be agents of and allies for change and social justice in diverse communities for nearly 20 years.
Program Overview
The
Social Service Worker
diploma program combines in-class learning with field experience to teach theoretical models, approaches to practice, group facilitation, mental health supports, social innovation, and anti-oppressive practice.
This is an approved education program by the
Ontario College of Social Workers and Social Service Workers (OCSWSSW)
.
Full Description
Develop the knowledge, values and skills to work directly with a wide range of people confronting the full breadth of social issues and challenges with the two-year
Social Service Worker (C119)
diploma program.
If you have strong interpersonal skills and are committed to working toward a more just and equitable society and examining the dynamics of power, oppression, and social location, this program is for you. Graduates are prepared for roles in a variety of agency settings, including mental health, homelessness, poverty, substance use and addictions, long-term care, criminal justice, crisis supports, and settlement and immigration.
You will examine social service workers' expanding professional roles and responsibilities in large urban centres and other communities. In addition to learning the theoretical models, methods, and skills of social service work practice, you will study and develop skills in the following:
group facilitation
allyship and anti-oppressive practice
counselling
substance use and addiction
social change and proposal development
values, ethics and professional practice
mental health well-being
You will also gain real-world experience with a supervised year-long field placement. In preparation for the field or clinical placement, students will be required to work in multiple small and large groups within classes and community settings.
Many Social Service Worker program faculty have professional experience in the following areas:
marginalized communities
institutional health and social service organizations
federal, provincial, and municipal governments
research and initiatives in social innovation
a range of not-for-profit organizations and agencies
direct practice with individuals, families, groups, and communities
ACCELERATED SOCIAL SERVICE WORKER PROGRAM OPTION
George Brown offers a full-time, one-year accelerated Social Service Worker (SSW) program
to university graduates with a degree in a related field, such as psychology, sociology, women’s studies, environmental studies, education, and cultural anthropology.
Students with degrees from other disciplines
may
be considered if they successfully completed a minimum of six relevant social science courses.
This SSW accelerated program option is also open to college diploma graduates, including:
Assaulted Women’s and Children’s Counsellor/Advocate
Child and Youth Care
Community Worker
Behavioural Science Technician
Recreation Management in Gerontology
Early Childhood Education
Find a
complete list of degrees and diplomas considered for admission to the Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135) program
.
SSW Pathways to BSW and MSW
George Brown College is a signatory of Colleges and Institutes Canada’s Indigenous Education Protocols, which reaffirms the importance of structures and approaches required to address Indigenous peoples' learning needs and support the self-determination and socio-economic development of Indigenous communities.
In response to this and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada’s Calls to Action, the Social Service Worker program is committed to developing the capacity of its students to work with Indigenous individuals, families, groups, and communities. The faculty acknowledges the support of Indigenous Education and Services at George Brown College and the Negahneewin Council at Confederation College, who have helped them with this process. The Indigenous Learning Outcomes guide the integration of Indigenous learning into the curriculum.
Your Field Education Options
As a student in this program, field education will provide you with a significant learning opportunity. In year two, you will have the chance to participate in a
year-long field experience with a community agency for approximately 600 hours.
While in placement, you will be supervised by qualified professional practitioners.
George Brown maintains relationships with agencies operating in a wide range of institutional and community-based settings throughout the Greater Toronto Area.  Assisted by our field placement co-ordinator, field faculty and GBC career services, students are supported to secure their own placement experience that reflects their interest
NOTE
: In compliance with the requirements of our field partners, all students in this program are encouraged to complete a Vulnerable Sector Check before commencing their field placement. These reference checks, which can take up to four months, are done to protect the clientele of these agencies who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law. The fees for the reference checks vary by region and must be paid by the student. Students are responsible for ensuring that the check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).”
The Social Service Worker (SSW) program will assist students in applying for the vulnerable sector check once they begin the program.
Students without a clear Vulnerable Sector Check may find that their choice of placement is limited. Students in this situation are encouraged to work with the field education coordinator to identify placement opportunities that do not require the Vulnerable Sector Check. Students are also encouraged to inquire and apply for Suppression and Destruction of Record or Record Suspension (formerly known Pardon) at their specific regional police services in order to prepare for their future career or employment. For more information, please visit the Clinical
Pre-placement website.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
George Brown SSW graduates meet the educational requirements for registration as a Social Service Worker in the
Ontario College of Social Workers and Social Service Workers (OCSWSSW).
Additional fees apply.
Our Social Service Worker
graduates have found employment in a variety of agency settings, including:
mental health
homelessness
poverty
substance use and addictions
long-term care
criminal justice
crisis supports
settlement and immigration
Educational Pathways
Graduates of this Social Service Worker (SSW) program may leverage this diploma to complete a second George Brown College diploma in a related field in a reduced time frame. Related programs include:
Child and Youth Care [Accelerated]
Early Childhood Education [Fast-Track]
Community Worker [Accelerated]
Assaulted Women and Children's Counsellor/Advocate [Accelerated]
Career Development Practitioner
SSW graduates who successfully complete this program may qualify for advanced standing in the following programs:
the
Professional Communications
B.A. and
Justice Studies
B.A. at Royal Roads University
the Community Economic & Social Development B.A. at
Algoma University
the Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) programs at:
Toronto Metropolitan University
York University
Lakehead University
Algoma University
For further information, see the
Transfer Guide
. For details, please follow the links above to program websites.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
SWRK 1026
Canadian Social Welfare
SWRK 1042
Values, Ethics and Professional Practice
SWRK 1063
Understanding and Working with Groups
SWRK 1121
The Sociology of Power, Privilege and Identity
COMM 2000*
Communicating Across Contexts*
GNED**
General Education Elective
* COMM 2000 is a prerequisite to be able to enrol in semesters 3 and 4 of the SSW program. Students who do not take and pass COMM 2000 in semester 1 are responsible to ensure they take and pass it prior to beginning semester 3 of the program.
** For their General Education Electives, SSW students may take up to 1 GSSC; 2 GHUM; 2 GSCI. Please note, that at least on of the Gen Ed Electives must be a GHUM or GSCI.
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
COUN 1034
Introduction to Counselling Skills in Social Service Work
ISHU 1035
Indigenous Studies
SWRK 1064
Preparation for Field & Professional Practice
SWRK 1109
Lifespan Development
SWRK 2057
Substance Use and Addiction
GNED
General Education Elective
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
SWRK 2056
Case Management: An Anti-Oppressive Approach
SWRK 2058
Perspectives On Mental Health
SWRK 2090
Fieldwork Practice
SWRK 2091
Fieldwork Seminar
Program Specialization Course
SEMESTER 4
Code
Course Name
SWRK 2090
Fieldwork Practice
SWRK 2091
Fieldwork Seminar
SWRK 1065
Social Change and Proposal Development
Program Specialization Course
PROGRAM SPECIALIZATION COURSE (FOR SEMESTERS 3 AND 4)
Code
Course Name
SWRK 2092
Working with Older Adults
SWRK 2093
Disability Discourse: Implications for SSW Practice
SWRK 2095
Deconstructing Internalized Privilege and Oppression
SWRK 2096
Social Innovation for Social justice
SWRK 2097
Counselling Skills with Individuals and Families
**Based on the results of your placement test, you may be required to take COMM 1000 (Introduction to College Communication) before progressing to COMM 1007. COMM 1000 does not count as a course required for graduation, and you will be charged for this extra course. Please visit the
Assessment Centre
page for more information.
General Education Electives
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The following Ministry of Colleges and Universities’ program standards apply to all social service worker diploma programs delivered by Ontario Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology.
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Develop respectful and collaborative professional and interpersonal relationships that adhere to professional, legal and ethical standards aligned to social service works.
Record information accurately and communicate effectively in written, digital, verbal and nonverbal ways, in adherence to privacy and freedom of information legislation, in accordance with professional and workplace standards.
Integrate a practice framework within a service delivery continuum, addressing the needs of individuals, families and communities at micro, mezzo, macro and global levels, and work with them in achieving their goals.
Plan and implement accessible and responsive programs and services, recognizing the diverse needs and experiences of individuals, groups, families and communities and meeting these needs.
Examine current social policy, relevant legislation and political, social, historical and/or economic systems and their impacts for individuals and communities when delivering services to the user/client.
Develop strategies and approaches that support individual clients, groups, families and communities in building the capacity for self-advocacy, while affirming their dignity and self-worth.
Work from an anti-oppressive, strengths-based practice, recognizing the capacity for resilience and growth of individuals and communities when responding to the diverse needs of marginalized or vulnerable populations to act as allies and advocates.
Develop strategies and approaches to implement and maintain holistic self-care as a member of a human service profession.
Work with individuals, groups, families and their communities to ensure that service provider strategies promote social and economic justice, and challenge patterns of oppression, discrimination and harassment, and sexual violence with clients, coworkers and communities.
Develop the capacity to work with the Indigenous individual, families, groups and communities while respecting their inherent rights to self-determine, and to identify and address systemic barriers that produce ill effects, developing appropriate responses using approaches such as trauma-informed care practice.
Note: The learning outcomes have been numbered as a point of reference; numbering does not imply prioritization, sequencing, nor weighting of significance.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$3,773.00 *
International Tuition
$17,905.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service, and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of their academic achievement, including the required courses, and any other selection criteria outlined below.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma or equivalent**
grade 12 English (C or U) – minimum grade of 60 per cent required
** Mature Student Status (19 years of age or older and no OSSD)
Mature students may take the
Admissions Assessment for English
OR may consider upgrading to achieve the credit(s) needed in
English
.
Please note that George Brown is committed to ensuring that applicants will succeed in their program of choice and meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program. Applicants may be required to have grades higher than the minimum requirements stated.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit the
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
Vulnerable Sector Check requirements and program policy
In compliance with the requirements of our field partners, all students in this program are encouraged[SM1]  to complete a Vulnerable Sector Check before commencing their field placement. These reference checks, which can take up to four months, are done to protect the clientele of these agencies who are considered “vulnerable persons” under the law. The fees for the vulnerable sector check vary by region and must be paid by the student. Students are responsible for ensuring that the check covers appropriateness for “individuals being employed and/or volunteering who will be working with vulnerable person(s).” The program will assist students in applying for vulnerable sector check once they begin the program. Students without a clear vulnerable sector check record may find that their choice of placement is limited. Students in this situation are encouraged to work with the field education co-ordinator to identify placement opportunities that do not require the vulnerable sector check. Students are also encouraged to inquire and apply for Suppression and Destruction of Record or Record Suspension (formerly known as Pardon) at their specific regional police services, in order to prepare for their future career or employment. For more information, please visit the
Clinical Pre-placement Office website
.
Our field placement partners may require students to show proof of vaccination. It is your responsibility to ensure all Pre-placement requirements are met.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Social & Community Services
Email:
communityservices@georgebrown.ca
.
To contact one of our Social Service Worker Program Coordinators, please email
sswcoordinators@georgebrown.ca
International Students: Please contact the International Centre by visiting:
georgebrown.ca/international/contact-international-centre
If you require accommodations, please contact Accessible Learning Services by visiting:
georgebrown.ca/current-students/services/accessible-learning-services
For more information about George Brown College:
Contact George Brown College
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Explore related programs:
Social Service Worker (Accelerated) (C135)
Community Worker (C101)
Child and Youth Care (C133)
“The vast education I received helped me to understand social work and open my mind to the many sectors available within the field.”
Belinda Batista
Ontario College Diploma
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.