Supply Chain Management Program (Postgraduate) (B429)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Supply Chain Management
Code:
B429
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
2 semesters
Starting Months:
January, September
Domestic Tuition:
$6,642.00 *
International Tuition:
$18,253.00 **
Centre:
Business
School:
Management
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open
Winter
2025
Open
Opens Apr 8, 2024
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
In today’s complex local and global economies, there is a tremendous need for skilled professionals in supply chain management. Our one-year
Supply Chain Management
program will teach you how to design and manage supply chains in a variety of industries. After you’ve completed the program, you’ll be ready to take on a variety of positions in global sourcing and procurement management, transportation and distribution management, production management, business planning, supply chain analysis, and logistics management.
Full Description
The
Supply Chain Management
graduate certificate program helps you get a leg up in a variety of industries by teaching you how supply chains work. Supply chain management (which ensures a smooth flow of products and services from their sourcing to final use) is the backbone of many organizations in industries like transportation, pharmaceutical, oil and gas, and retail. With this certificate, you’ll be ready to launch an exciting career that combines technical expertise with innovative thinking and relationship-building.
Courses are delivered in a variety of ways, with an emphasis on applied and experiential learning. Not only will you learn the basics, but you'll also learn about supply chain optimization, risk management, and sustainable sourcing. By the end of this program, you'll know how to deliver real value to your future employer.
Here are some skills you’ll be able to show off after completion of the Supply Chain Management program:
Guiding decision-making by finding connections between strategic objectives, stakeholder expectations, and supply chain functions, processes, and roles
Making informed decisions about supply chain management using risk mitigation tools and strategies
Managing the acquisition and sale of goods, services, and materials according to best practices and stakeholder expectations
Managing material requirements, resources, and inventory to process customer orders and returns efficiently
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Graduates of this program will be equipped to enter a wide range of positions in global sourcing and procurement management, transportation and distribution management, production management, business planning, supply chain analysis and logistics management.
Common job titles for Supply Chain Management graduates include:
supply chain planning co-ordinator
operations/logistic co-ordinator
operations systems analyst
inventory analyst
business demand co-ordinator
sales analyst
Courses
Required Courses
In order to graduate, you must successfully complete the following
13
mandatory courses
Semester 1
Course Code
Courses
Prerequisites
MGMT 4092
Supply Chain Strategy
NONE
MGMT 4093
Supply Chain Sustainability
NONE
MGMT 4094
Sourcing and Purchasing
NONE
MGMT 4095
Risk Management
NONE
MGMT 4096
Technology Integration and Analysis
NONE
MARK 4005
Applied Business Communication
NONE
MGMT 4097
Career Planning
NONE
Semester 2
Course Code
Courses
Prerequisites
MGMT 4098
Performance Management and Logistics
MGMT 4092
MGMT 4099
Transportation and Logistics
MGMT 4092
MGMT 4100
Warehousing
MGMT 4092
MGMT 4101
Supply Chain Management Design and Optimization
MGMT 4092 & MGMT 4093
MGMT 4102
Inventory and Forecasting
MGMT 4096
MGMT 4103
Experiential Learning
Successful Completion of Semester 1
Printable Curriculum Planner
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate has reliably demonstrated the ability to:
Examine the connections between strategic objectives, stakeholder expectations, and supply chain design, functions, processes and roles, to guide decision-making, problem-solving and coordination of tasks.
Determine the value added and financial implications of supply chain decisions and design on overall business profitability, efficiency and stakeholder satisfaction.
Ensure supply chain activities and transactions are compliant with relevant legal, regulatory and contractual obligations, and industry and organization standards and policies for quality, health, safety, accountability, social and environmental responsibility.
Use risk mitigation tools and strategies to inform supply chain management decisions.
Contribute to the acquisition and sale of goods, services and materials in accordance with best practices and public and private sector stakeholder expectations across a variety of industries.
Contribute to the strategic planning and scheduling of material requirements, resource allocation and inventory for efficient production and fulfillment of customer orders and returns.
Coordinate the efficient handling and movement of goods, services, materials and related information within and between supply chains.
Contribute to the identification and management of continuous improvements to functions and processes within and between supply chains.
Use available technologies to enhance work performance and support supply chain functions, processes, transactions and communications.
Monitor relevant trends, emerging technologies, and local and global economic, political and environmental issues to enhance work performance and guide management decisions.
Use leadership and communication skills to establish and manage strategic relationships with a diversity of stakeholders and support the achievement of business goals.
Develop and apply ongoing strategies for personal, career and professional development.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$6,642.00 *
International Tuition
$18,253.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first two semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Ontario College diploma (two-year), Ontario College advanced diploma (three-year) or bachelor's degree or equivalent.
English Language Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission. In addition, applicants who are considered for admission to the program based solely on their work experience will be required to provide proof of English proficiency at the college level, and may be required to write the George Brown College English admission assessment
Please review our
English proficiency requirements
for more details.
Course Exemptions
Some college and university credits may qualify you for exemptions. Please visit our
transfer guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
Information Sessions
On-campus information sessions
are held on a regular basis. Come and have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College classroom.
Sign up for an upcoming session
.
Domestic Student Admissions
For inquiries about domestic admission requirements, admission deadlines, or the admissions process, please contact the Admissions Office at
admissions@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Admissions section
.
International Student Admissions
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
.
Fees and Financial Information
For inquiries about OSAP, Bursaries, Scholarships and other financial inquiries, please contact the Financial Aid Office at
FinAid@georgebrown.ca
or visit the
Financial Aid section
.
Entry Advising
For advice on the various program options and which program might be best suited for you,
make an appointment
to see an Entry Advisor. Please review these
frequently asked questions
.
Centre for Business
For questions regarding programs at the Centre for Business or if you require more information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Our knowledgeable staff are available to assist you.
For general inquiries, please contact the Centre for Business:
Email:
business@georgebrown.ca
Phone: (416) 415-5000 ext. 2160
Supply Chain Management (B429)
For inquiries related to this program (for example, course-specific information) please contact the program co-ordinator:
Sam Lampropoulos
, Program Co-ordinator
Email:
slamprop@georgebrown.ca
Social Channels
Follow the Centre for Business on
Instagram
and
LinkedIn
.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered out of our
School of Management
and classes usually take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
200 King St. E.
and
290 Adelaide St. E.
, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up
today! You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.