Transitions to Post-Secondary Education Program (A107)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Transitions to Post-Secondary Education
Code:
A107
Credential:
Ontario College Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
12 months (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
January, April, September
Domestic Tuition:
No fee*
Centre:
Preparatory & Liberal Studies
School:
Work & College Preparation
Location:
St. James Campus
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Opening Soon
Not Available
Winter
2025
Opening Soon
Not Available
Spring
2025
Opening Soon
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Academic Upgrading (A751)
Culinary Skills (Preparatory Training) (A110)
Human Services Foundations (A113)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Leadership Claims
The Transitions to Post-Secondary Education program is unique in Ontario.
Program Overview
Transitions to Post-Secondary Education (A107)
is a free, supportive, three-semester program that helps those who face mental health or addictions challenges reach their education and employment goals.
Full Description
Transitions to Post-Secondary Education (TPE)
is a free post-secondary certificate program for adults who have faced barriers to further school or work related to mental health and/or addiction experiences. TPE focuses on offering support and space for students to transition into further post-secondary programs. Students cultivate their style of learning, reimagine career possibilities, and develop confidence and leadership in navigating institutions in support of their post-secondary ambitions.
Throughout the TPE program, students will focus on developing key skills, including:
communication (written, verbal, group)
critical thinking & problem solving
information & change management
community building & leadership
self-advocacy
The TPE program offers students opportunities to:
develop new strategies and skills
explore and pursue academic and career goals
understand and address individual challenges to employment, academic and interpersonal success
Apply to the TPE program if you are:
ready to make a change in your life by going back to school
prepared to join a diverse and engaged learning community of adults
self-identify as someone who has faced barriers to education
Courses in the TPE (A107) program and what participants can expect to learn:
Mattering in Transitions 1 & 2
– students will reflect, make sense of, and share learning, research and practices related to their life and career transitions. Student outcomes include decision-making, planning, and next steps.
Life Skills, Learning and Working with Others, and Community Engagement
– will help students develop greater self-awareness and self-confidence.
Learning for All, Communicating Across Context, and Speaking with Courage
– will help students gain skills in time management, organization, essay writing and presentations.
Computer Skills I & II, and Technology for Communication
– will help students develop the expertise needed to navigate the digital learning environment.
Students in this program can also choose from a wide range of exciting elective. courses such as
Writing Your Life, Creative Exploration, Phenomenal Psychology, Sociology
and
the Medium and the Message: Exploring Media Power and Social Change.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Students who complete this program go on to a wide range of employment and educational opportunities depending on their interests and previous experience. Some choose to make a career change, and many go on to other post-secondary programs before seeking employment.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
MANDATORY
Code
Course name
PREP 1021
Life Skills
PREP 1022
Mattering in Transition 1
COMP 1216
Computer Skills I
STS 1001
Learning for All
COMM 1000
Introduction to College Communications
OR
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
Choose one Program related elective from the list below
SEMESTER 2
MANDATORY
Code
Course name
PREP 1031
Learning and Working With Others
PREP 1032
Mattering in Transition 2
COMP 1217
Computer Skills 2
PREP 1045
Speaking with Courage
COMM 2000
Communicating Across Contexts
Choose one program-related elective from the list below
SEMESTER 3
MANDATORY
Code
Course name
PREP 1041
Community Engagement
PREP 1044
Knowledge in Motion
COMP 1218
Technology for Communication
Choose two program-related electives from the list below
ELECTIVES FOR ALL SEMESTERS
Code
Course name
SSCI 1037
Phenominal Psychology
LIBA 1041
Creative Exploration
LIBA 1042
Writing your Life: the Art of Personal Narrative
SSCI 1040
Ableism, Mental Health & Oppression: Sociological Perspectives
PREP 1042
Career Awareness
PREP 1034
City and Self
SSCI 1039
The Medium and the Message: Exploring Media Power and Social Change
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
Every credential at George Brown College delivers detailed program learning outcomes that are discipline-specific and aligned with the appropriate credential level. Program learning outcomes are statements that describe the knowledge and skills that students are expected to demonstrate by the end of their program of study.
In addition to the learning outcome requirements, college programs are required to provide students with exposure to a breadth of learning beyond their core disciplinary or vocational field, to increase their awareness of the society and culture in which they live and work. This breadth requirement is addressed for college programs through additional mandatory General Education or Liberal Studies courses in the program curriculum. Also, programs are designed to provide essential transferable skills (referred to sometimes as essential employability skills), which include: communication, numeracy, critical thinking and problem-solving, information management, interpersonal and personal skills, among others.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
No fee*
Additional Costs
* Students in this program do not pay tuition or fees. This program is funded by the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-term Care and the Ministry of Colleges and Universities.
Financial Assistance
This program is not eligible for OSAP funding.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
Applicants are selected on the basis of:
English reading and writing skills
self-identified experience of mental health and/or addictions barriers
mature student status (19 years of age or older)
Intake process involves the following:
Attend an
Online
information session.
Complete an
In-Person
application and English Writing Sample.
Course Exemptions
Certain college or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions.
Two computer courses
are also eligible for prior learning assessment, based on your previous education and experiential learning.
How to Apply
Apply Now
Contact Us
Contact the program office email
tpeinfo@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Visit Our Campus
All classes in TPE are held at 341 King Street East. Book a general
campus tour
to see the common areas of the campus (i.e., cafeteria, student services, the gym, etc.) or explore our
virtual tour.
Explore related programs:
Academic Upgrading (A751)
Culinary Skills (Preparatory Training) (A110)
Human Services Foundations (A113)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Get answers to your questions
Book info session
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.