Visual Effects Program (Online) (Postgraduate) (P418)
Apply Now:
Domestic Students
International Students
Program Details
View information for:
2023-2024
2024-2025
Program Name:
Visual Effects
Code:
P418
Credential:
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Method of Study:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year (3 semesters)
Starting Months:
September
Domestic Tuition:
$12,132.00 *
International Tuition:
$32,495.00 **
Centre:
Arts, Design & Information Technology
School:
Media & Performing Arts
Location:
Online
Program Availability
Semester
Domestic
International
Fall
2024
Open
Open: Not Study Permit Eligible
Winter
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Spring
2025
Not Available
Not Available
Add to Comparison
+
Compare Programs
Explore related programs:
Screenwriting & Narrative Design (Postgraduate) (P400)
Visual Effects (Postgraduate) (P408)
Sound Design & Production (Postgraduate) (P409)
Program Menu
Program Description
Courses
Tuition & Fees
Admission Requirements
Program Outcomes
Contact Us
Program Description
Program Overview
The
Visual Effects (Online)
one-year graduate certificate program will expand your knowledge of concepts and techniques in 3D animation, motion graphics, and audio/video editing for film and television. After graduating from this program, you'll be able to hit the ground running as a visual effects artist across many dynamic platforms.
PLEASE NOTE
: You
cannot
transfer into the
in-class
Visual Effects P408
program after the start date.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This program is 100% online and, therefore,
international
students in this program do not come to Canada, are not eligible for a study permit,
and will not be eligible for a post-graduation work permit upon completion of this program.
Full Description
In this exciting three-semester
Visual Effects (Online)
graduate certificate program, you'll increase your skills in 3D procedural animation, compositing, virtual production, and visual effects workflows for film, television, and the video game industry. Preparing for a career in the post-production industry, you'll learn to combine technical skills with the creativity of a designer.
As a visual effects student, you'll hone your visual storytelling capabilities through using elements like digital lighting, surface attribute design, 3D compositing, and virtual engines. You'll also get to work with our LED wall, which will give you hands-on experience working with industry-leading technology.
This program offers you the chance to learn from leading industry professionals who will guide you through classroom training, as well as other relevant collaborative and extracurricular activities.
Program Requirements
You'll need to have access to a personal computer with the following minimum specifications:
laptop or desktop
CPU:
Intel Skylake Core i7 – i9 six cores
or equivalent
graphics:
RTX 2000 series
or equivalent
RAM:
32GB (the more you can afford the better)
screen:
15-inch minimum
storage:
500GB – 1TB SSD
additional storage
: 4TB Portable HD or more
optional but recommended:
Wacom tablet;
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
This online program is only available to study while remaining in your home country and
does not qualify for study/work permit eligibility in Canada.
Career & Postgraduate Study Opportunities
Career Options
Visual effects artists are able to move across multiple platforms including film, television, interaction storytelling, gaming and animation. Potential job titles include:
3D animator
texture artist
technical artist
environment modeller
character modeller
object modeller
stop motion animator
visual effects artist
Industry
The visual effects field is a strong and well-established industry. As film and television continues to adapt to new technologies such as LED wall technology, this industry continues to grow in numerous countries around the world.
Courses
Required Courses
SEMESTER 1
Code
Course Name
VSFX 1001
Digital Visual Effects
VSFX 1002
Digital Compositing
VSFX 1003
Photorealistic Modelling
VSFX 1004
Procedural Modelling and Animation
VSFX 1005
Immersive Environments
VSFX 1006
Visual Effects Project I
VSFX 1007
Visual Effects Models and Shaders
SEMESTER 2
Code
Course Name
VSFX 1013
Photorealistic Rendering
VSFX 1014
Particle System Effects
VSFX 1015
Cinematography For Visual Effects
VSFX 1016
Visual Effects Project II
VSFX 1018
Visual Effects Rendering
VSFX 1019
Matte Painting
VSFX 1020
Portfolio
SEMESTER 3
Code
Course Name
VSFX 2010
Entrepreneurship
VSFX 2020
Experiential Thesis
Detailed course outlines
Program Learning Outcomes
The graduate demonstrates the ability to:
Design visual effects sequences using storyboarding and pre-visualization that meet production requirements.
Use filmmaking and game terminology to communicate effectively throughout all stages of production.
Complete the production of live action plates for use in visual effects.
Manage the production of visual effects projects to meet production schedules.
Identify hardware and software protocols specific to the field of visual effects.
Analyze images and physical sets to digitally re-create lights, cameras, locations and objects.
Create photo-real images to match live action footage.
Recreate natural phenomena by using appropriate particle or dynamic effects.
Integrate 2D and/or 3D computer-generated imagery and live action elements.
Create customized tools through software or scripting to allow for more advanced application of visual effects techniques.
Work collaboratively in interdisciplinary teams on the production of visual effects.
Tuition & Fees
Domestic Tuition
$12,132.00 *
International Tuition
$32,495.00 **
Additional Costs
* Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the
three
semesters of programs starting in Fall
2023
. Fees are subject to change for programs starting in Fall 2024 and at later dates. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
** Amounts listed are the estimated total of tuition, materials, student service and ancillary fees for the first three semesters of programs starting in Fall
2024
. Tuition fees are subject to board approval. Material, student service and ancillary fees are estimated based on prior years. All fees are subject to change without notice. This fee does not include books, which are to be purchased by the student separately.
International Students
Visit the
International Fees and Related Costs page
for more information.
Financial Assistance
This program is approved for OSAP funding, provided the applicant meets OSAP eligibility criteria.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website is subject to change without notice. It should not be viewed as a representation, offer or warranty. Students are responsible for verifying George Brown College fee requirements.
Admission Requirements
bachelor OR diploma/advanced diploma
digital portfolio
letter of intent (in digital format/web link)
* Instructions for submitting the portfolio will be provided to successful applicants during the application process. Please also see Special Requirements below.
English Proficiency
Applicants with international transcripts who do not provide English proficiency test results must test at the college level in the George Brown College English assessment to be considered for admission.
Please visit our
English language proficiency page
for more details.
Course Exemptions
College or university credits may qualify you for course exemptions. Please visit our
Transfer Guide
for more information.
International Students
Visit the
International Admissions page
for more information regarding country specific admission requirements.
Special Requirements
International (Visa) Students
This is a 100 per cent online program, irrespective of the current remote delivery for P408 in light of COVID-19 pandemic restrictions. P418 will remain as a permanent online option. Therefore,
students in this program do not come to Canada, and are not eligible for a study permit
, and graduates will not be eligible for a post-graduation work permit upon completion of this program.
How to Apply
Domestic students should apply through
Ontario Colleges.
International Students
Visit the
How to Apply page
for more information on how and when to apply.
International students should apply through the
George Brown College Online Application System
.
Contact Us
School of Media & Performing Arts
Phone: 416-415-5000, ext. 2015
Email:
media@georgebrown.ca
For more information about George Brown College, you may also call the Contact Centre at 416-415-2000 (TTY 1-877-515-5559) or long distance 1-800-265-2002.
Contact one of our international recruitment representatives specializing by country of origin by either booking a virtual meeting or submitting an inquiry. For more information visit the
International Contact Us page
Visit Our Campus
This program is offered through our
School of Media and Performing Arts
and classes take place at our
St. James Campus
, mainly at
230 Richmond Street East
, and
341 King St. East.,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Information sessions
are available. Have your questions answered. Learn about the program content and career options, meet your friendly professors and staff, and experience what it is like to be in a George Brown College program.
Sign up for an information session
.
Campus tours
are offered on a regular basis.
Sign up for a campus tour
. You can also check out our
virtual tour
.
Explore related programs:
Screenwriting & Narrative Design (Postgraduate) (P400)
Visual Effects (Postgraduate) (P408)
Sound Design & Production (Postgraduate) (P409)
Visit and discover life in our campus
Book campus tour
Sign up to receive tailored resources to make your application, your way.
Sign up now
Close
Sign up and learn more about your options, our programs, and life at George Brown.
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Domestic or International
Country
I agree to be sent email communications from George Brown College. I understand I can unsubscribe at any time.